# CoreBclkSclkAlign Training Ports

The following table lists the clock alignment common signals required for CoreBclkSclkAlign.

<table id="TABLE_WPQ_GJF_2XB"><thead><tr><th>

Port Name

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

**Clocks and Reset**

</td><td colspan="2">

 

</td></tr><tr><td>

SCLK

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

Fabric clock

</td></tr><tr><td>

RESETN

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

Active low asynchronous reset

</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">

**Data Bus and Control Signals – PLL and ICB Mode**

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_TRAIN\_START

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> Set to 1 to start the clock training<br /> It is level-based; it must be driven high to start either PLL or ICB<br /> clock training mode .<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_TRAIN\_DONE

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

<br /> Set to 1 at the end of the clock training and Reset to 0 when<br /> BCLKSCLK\_TRAIN\_START is 0 <br /> It is level-based; the DUT drives high at the end of clock training<br /> in PLL or ICB clock training mode.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_ALGN\_PAUSE

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

Set to 1 to reset the lane controller during start or rotate reached<br /> eight times \(retrain\) or at the completion of the clock training in both<br /> PLL and ICB mode.

</td></tr><tr><td>

CLK\_ALGN\_RSTRT

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – Disable HOLD-based training<br /> 1 – RESTART PLL-based or ICB-based training<br /> It is level-based; it must be driven high to restart the PLL or ICB<br /> clock training mode.<br /> This parameter is used in common for PLL/ICB mode and used internally<br /> in the DUT-based on BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE to connect either PLL or ICB<br /> Block<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

CLK\_ALGN\_SKIP

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – Disable HOLD-based training<br /> 1 – SKIP PLL / ICB-based training<br /> It is level-based; it must be driven high to SKIP the PLL/ICB clock<br /> training mode.<br /> CLK\_ALGN\_SKIP\_TRNG - parameter must be set to enable this feature.<br /> This parameter is used in common for PLL / ICB Mode and used<br /> internally in the DUT-based on BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE to connect either<br /> PLL or ICB Block <br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

CLK\_ALGN\_HOLD

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – Disable HOLD-based training<br /> 1 –HOLD PLL-based / ICB-based training<br /> It is level-based; it must be driven high to HOLD the PLL/ICB clock<br /> training mode.<br /> CLK\_ALGN\_HOLD\_TRNG - parameter must be set to enable this feature.<br /> This parameter is used in common for PLL/ICB mode and used<br /> internally in the DUT-based on BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE to connect either<br /> PLL or ICB Block.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">

**Data Bus and Control Signals – PLL Mode Alone**

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLK\_IGEAR\_RX\[\*-1:0\]

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> IOG\_IOD RX\_N for BCLK transition detection<br /> The parameter width must be set to either DDR2 or DDR4 fabric ratio<br /> to parametrize the width this input as required<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_BCLKPHS\_OFFSET\[2:0\]

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> BCLK VCO phase required for SCLK , BCLK , and BCLK90 clock<br /> relationship.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_BCLK\_VCOPHSEL\[6:0\]

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

The final phase used by the DUT is driven out and is mainly used in<br /> DEBUG mode for the PLL Clock Training mode.

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_VCOPHSEL\_SCLK\_SEL

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL VCO Phase select for SCLK

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_VCOPHSEL\_BCLK\_SEL

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL VCO Phase select for BCLK

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_VCOPHSEL\_BCLK90\_SEL

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL VCO Phase select for BCLK90

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_VCOPHSEL\_MCLK\_SEL

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL VCO Phase select for memory clock

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_LOADPHS

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL Phase load default values

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_PHS\_ROTATE

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

<br /> PLL Phase rotate<br /> Based on PLL\_VCOPHSEL\_X, the corresponding clock rotates in 45° shift<br /> for VCO/8 phase delays in forward or backward direction. <br /> BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_DIR parameter is used to select the direction.<br /> 0 - Backward Direction<br /> 1 - Forward Direction<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

PLL\_PHS\_DIRECTION

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

<br /> -   1: Rotate phase forward. This is the default value.
-   0: Rotate phase backward.

<br /> **Note:** The algorithm uses the rotate phase in backward direction.

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">

**Data Bus and Control Signals –used for ICB Mode Alone**

</td></tr><tr><td>

IOD\_EARLY

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

Data eye monitor early flag

</td></tr><tr><td>

IOD\_LATE

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

Data eye monitor late flag

</td></tr><tr><td>

IOD\_OOR

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

Out of range flag for delay line

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_BCLKPHS\_OFFSET\[7:0\]

</td><td>

Input

</td><td>

<br /> Used for BCLK Phase Alignment <br /> The value is used as added TAP delays in the IP for alignment<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_CLR\_FLGS

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

Clear Early/Late flags

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_LOAD

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

PLL Load default values

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_DIR

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

<br /> Delay line up/down direction<br /> 1 – up \(increment 1 tap\) \(default\)<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_MOV

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

Increment the delay on move pulse

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_ERR

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – No Error ICB Delay-based training<br /> 1 – Timeout Error in ICB Delay-based training<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

ICB\_CLK\_ALGN\_TAPDLY\[7:0\]

</td><td>

Output

</td><td>

The final calculated TAP delays and ICB\_BCLKPHS\_OFFSET\[7:0\] is driven<br /> out by the DUT and is mainly used in DEBUG mode for ICB clock training<br /> mode.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>The following table lists all the valid and invalid training use cases of the<br /> COREBCLKSCLKALGN IP.

|COREBCLKSCLKALGN IP<br /> Skip/Hold/Restart Feature|
|Parameter|Ports|Use Case|Notes|
|CLK\_ALGN\_SKIP\_TRNG|CLK\_ALGN\_HOLD\_TRNG|CLK\_ALGN\_SKIP|CLK\_ALGN\_HOLD|CLK\_ALGN\_RSTRT|
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
|---------|-----|--------|-----|
|---------------------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|----------------|
|1|1|1|0|0|Valid|Skip training|
|1|1|1|0|1|Invalid|Training is skipped completely, then Restart training is not a valid<br /> use case.|
|1|1|1|1|0|Invalid|Training is skipped completely, then Hold training is not a valid use<br /> case.|
|1|1|1|1|1|Invalid|Training is skipped completely, then Hold/Restart training is not a<br /> valid use case.|
|1|1|0|1|0|Valid|Hold training whenever CLK\_TRAIN\_DONE is “0”.|
|1|1|0|1|1|Invalid|Both Hold/Restart training cannot occur at the same time.|
|1|1|0|0|1|Valid|Restart training whenever required.|

**Parent topic:**[CoreBclkSclkAlign Coarse Training Timing Diagram](GUID-BC95EECA-1201-4BA4-B277-85B6B1E160D3.md)

