# Programmable I/O Delay

The IOD block includes process, voltage, programmable delay chains for both<br /> input and output data paths. The input delay path has an<br /> intrinsic delay when the delay chain is enabled. This added<br /> delay is above the value of the incremental tap delay and is<br /> reported by the Libero SoC software when used. Consequently,<br /> there is a fast path to the fabric when the input delay chain is<br /> not present. The programmable delay chains on the output data<br /> path allow 128 tap delay. The enable path also includes a 8-tap<br /> programmable delay chain that is programmed statically by<br /> software and is not user programmed. The programmable delay<br /> chain can be set statically by using the I/O attribute editor or<br /> by using a PDC command in Libero SoC. The value per tap delay is<br /> not process, voltage, temperature\(PVT\) compensated and can have<br /> variation. For information about delays, see respective [PolarFire FPGA Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/PolarFire-FPGA-Datasheet-DS00003831.pdf) or [PolarFire SoC FPGA Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/PolarFire-SoC-Datasheet-DS00004248.pdf).

The programmable delay chain is used to:

-   Ensure zero hold time for the input registers
-   Cancel the skew between the input data path and clock injection path
-   Spread out I/O buffer timing along with an edge of the device for SSO noise control

The programmable delay chain can also be controlled through dynamic control<br /> signals from the FPGA fabric. Dynamic delay control is useful<br /> for high-speed interfaces that require per-bit alignment. The<br /> dynamic control is only available for certain I/O interfaces,<br /> see [Generic I/O Interfaces](GUID-A63099D1-2595-43B7-B69C-1ABB1F7E412A.md)<br /> for more information. Static delay values can be controlled by<br /> PDC command constraint through IO Editor or manual constraint<br /> file input. In the PDC constraint file, IN\_DELAY allows settings<br /> from OFF, 0-127, 128-254 \(even numbers only\).

example:

```
set_io -port_name PAD \
-IN_DELAY 2 \
-DIRECTION INPUT
```

The output delay values can be controlled by PDC command constraint through IO<br /> Editor or manual constraint file input. In the PDC constraint<br /> file, OUT\_DELAY allows settings from OFF, 1 - 128.

```
set_io -port_name PAD_0 \
-OUT_DELAY 2 \
-DIRECTION OUTPUT
```

-   **[Static Timing Analysis](GUID-B6301E54-2F58-487F-BC0C-C4519A4AAEB1.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[IOD Block Overview](GUID-955B8943-849D-4CC8-8052-F4A167A48B29.md)

