# RX DDR Interfaces

The IOD block are assembled using a combination of modules—Delay, IREG or IGEAR, FIFO, Gearing, Lane Controller, and Soft Training IP \(TIP, not built automatically by Libero SoC\). The I/O makes a direct use of clock topologies around the perimeter of the I/O ring to build synchronous I/O interfaces including lane clocks and bank \(HS\_IO\_CLKs\) clocks, local, and global clocks.

Purpose built input capture circuitry uses DDR registers, which captures incoming data on both the rising and falling edges of the clock incoming clock. The RX DDR interfaces are constructed in several input widths and clocking variations using the Libero SoC I/O interface configurators.

In FPGA generic I/O interfaces, there are three types of external interface definitions—centered, aligned, and fractional-aligned. In a centered I/O interface—at the device input pins—the clock is centered in the data opening. In an aligned external interface—at the device pins—the clock and data transition are aligned or edge-on-edge. Fractional aligned IOD mode is used when the receive clock is a fraction of the data rate. Interfaces use either a static or dynamic optimization methods to achieve specific data rate targets. Static uses Libero SoC generated data and clock delay tunings. Using constraints, you can adjust the data delay of a static interface. Dynamic uses IOD capabilities to adapt the interface for optimal performance. Static interfaces are turn-key using Libero SoC whereas dynamic requires user integration to optimize the interface for maximum performance.

The clock source in both types of interfaces can be sourced for a global,<br /> regional, or lane clock. For more information about clocking topologies, see [PolarFire Family Clocking Resources User Guide](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/UserGuides/Microchip_PolarFire_FPGA_and_PolarFire_SoC_FPGA_Clocking_Resources_User_Guide_VB.pdf).

The Generic I/O Interfaces use a naming convention as follows:

-   Direction\_Gearing\_Capture clock\_Fabric clock\_Clock to data relationship
-   TX \(direction\), DDR \(gearing\), R \(regional\), C \(Centered\) ==&gt; TX\_DDR\_R\_C
-   DDRX \(direction\), B \(HS\_IO\_CLK\), FA \(Fractional Clock Aligned\), DYN \(Dynamic alignment\), FDYN \(Fractional Clock with dynamic alignment\)

Both the device families include the following generic RX DDR interface types.

|Name|Clock Type|Gearing Ratio|Description|
|----|----------|-------------|-----------|
|RX\_DDR\_G\_A|Continuous|1|Rx DDR w/Global aligned|
|RX\_DDR\_R\_A|Continuous|1|Rx DDR w/Regional clock aligned|
|RX\_DDR\_G\_C|Continuous|1|Rx DDR w/Global centered|
|RX\_DDR\_R\_C|Continuous|1|Rx DDR w/Regional clock<br /> centered|
|RX\_DDRX\_B\_G\_A|Continuous|2, 3.5, 4, 5|Rx DDR geared w/Bank aligned using<br /> Global clock|
|RX\_DDRX\_B\_G\_C|Continuous|2, 3.5, 4, 5|Rx DDR geared w/Bank centered using<br /> Global clock|
|RX\_DDRX\_B\_R\_A|Continuous|2, 3.5, 4, 5|Rx DDR geared w/Bank aligned using<br /> Regional clock|
|RX\_DDRX\_B\_R\_C|Continuous|2, 3.5, 4, 5|Rx DDR geared w/Bank centered using<br /> Regional clock|

**Note:**

1.  For more information about maximum operating frequency, see respective [PolarFire FPGA Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/PolarFire-FPGA-Datasheet-DS00003831.pdf), [PolarFire SoC FPGA Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/PolarFire-SoC-Datasheet-DS00004248.pdf), [RT PolarFire FPGA Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/RT-PolarFire-FPGA-Datasheet-00004122A.pdf), or [RT PolarFire SoC Datasheet](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/FPGA/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/PolarFire-SoC-Datasheet-DS00004248.pdf).
2.  Regional clock interfaces use the generated HS\_IO\_CLK to capture the data and then transfer to the regional clock within the FPGA fabric.

**Parent topic:**[Generic I/O Interfaces](GUID-A63099D1-2595-43B7-B69C-1ABB1F7E412A.md)

