# Example Timing Constraints for a x2 SpaceWire RX Interface

Consider an example design where the PF\_SPACEWIRE\_RX\_PHY core is used to generate two SpaceWire<br /> RX inputs, with the programmable input delay set to 50 static delay taps on the<br /> respective DATA\_IN\_N ports. Furthermore, assume that you renamed the top-level inputs<br /> from the default DIN\_P/N\[1:0\] and SIN\_P/N\[1:0\] to more descriptive names, according to<br /> their system/board naming convention.

With these port names, the following SDC constraints can be used for Synthesis, Place and Route, and Timing Verification:

``` {#CODEBLOCK_ZY3_VQQ_J5B}
#SpaceWire Input Timing Constraints
#######################################

#Create clock on both strobe and data inputs since both create clock edges
create_clock -name {SpW_0_RX_CLK} -period 7 \
		[get_ports {SpW_0_STROBE_IN_P SpW_0_DATA_IN_P}]
create_clock -name {SpW_1_RX_CLK} -period 7 \
		[get_ports {SpW_1_STROBE_IN_P SpW_1_DATA_IN_P}]

#Specify clock jitter on the SpW RX clock recovered from RX DATA and STROBE inputs
set_input_jitter 0.200 [ get_clocks { SpW_0_RX_CLK } ]
set_input_jitter 0.200 [ get_clocks { SpW_1_RX_CLK } ]

#External Timing Constraints:
#######################################
# Max Delay of	0 ns	: for latching data from same edge as launched
#		    -X ns	: X is skew between S and D from external SpW TX, 
#			  	  + board skew, etc, assume 100ps below
#			to	: FF capturing RX data, e.g. Data IOD RX_P:
#				PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_0/I_IOD_0/RX_P

set_max_delay -0.100 \
                -to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_0/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]
set_max_delay -0.100 \
                -to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_1/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]

#Min Delay -3.5 ns	: hold on previous edge using clock_period / 2
#		 + X ns	: X is skew between S and D from external SpW TX, 
#				  + board skew, etc, assume 100ps below
#			to	: FF capturing RX data, e.g. Data IOD RX_P:
#				PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_0/I_IOD_0/RX_P

set_min_delay -3.4 \
                -to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_0/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]
set_min_delay -3.4 \
                -to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_1/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]

#Normally for source synchronous inputs, input delays use the formulas:
#input max dly= max data trace dly + Tco of ext TX - min clk trace dly
#input min dly= min data trace dly + min Tco of ext TX - max clk trace dly
#
#However, in SpW RX, it's S vs. D skew affecting the "data valid window" 
#Thus, commented lines below since skew considered in max/min delays above
#set_input_delay 0 -clock {SpW_0_RX_CLK} [get_ports {SpW_0_DATA_IN_N SpW_0_DATA_IN_P}]
#set_input_delay 0 -clock {SpW_1_RX_CLK} [get_ports {SpW_1_DATA_IN_N SpW_1_DATA_IN_P}]

#Constraint below tells place and route to minimize DATA delay through XOR
set_max_delay 0 -from [ get_clocks { SpW_0_RX_CLK } ] \
		-through [get_cells {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/XOR2_0}] \
		-to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_0/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]

set_max_delay 0 -from [ get_clocks { SpW_1_RX_CLK } ] \
		-through [get_cells {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/XOR2_1}] \
		-to [get_pins {PF_SPACEWIRE_RX_PHY_C0_0/PF_IOD_DATA_P_1/I_IOD_0/RX_P}]
```

**Important:**

-   The path through the XOR must be minimized during Place and Route.
-   Synthesis does not recognize some of the paths in the SDC, but Place and Route and Verify Timing do recognize the paths.
-   You can have separate SDCs for Synthesis, Place and Route, and Verify Timing. Using independent SDC files for each design step can minimize the run-time, if evaluating the impact of constraint changes to Timing Verification independently from Synthesis and Place and Route.
-   For the initial Place and Route, do not run min-delay repair. Once max delay timing is met, review the hold time violations, if any, on the DATA\_IN path to the I/O register to understand how much additional programmable input delay would be needed to meet timing at the DATA IOD\_P DDR input register. Then run an incremental Place and Route with min-delay repair enabled. Review the resulting min-delay-repair report and the resulting timing reports to confirm whether the automatically added I/O delay meets your required slack margin.
-   In the Libero SoC I/O Editor, the programmable Input Delay setting will appear on both the DATA\_P and DATA\_N rows. However, the delay will only impact the timing of the SpaceWire RX IOD\_P side of the DATA input as that IOD is configured in DDR\_RX\_x1 mode, using the DDR input I/O Flip-Flop \(IOFF\).
-   As mentioned previously, to achieve higher data rates, such as 400 Mbps, use the following process to account for recovered clock skew. It can be obtained and used to fine tune the strobe IOD delay line tap setting.
    -   In the timing report explorer, enable the skew column. Look for significant skew for reg-to-reg paths in the recovered clock domain. The delay from the data to the XOR input must be higher than the delay from the strobe to the XOR input.
    -   Update the delay line settings of the strobe IOD to "skew in ps / 30".
    -   Run Place and Route in incremental mode and with min-delay repair enabled.
    -   Finally, if the external timing requirements are still not met, adjust the data IOD delay line setting. Increase the delay tap to fix a hold issue and decrease the delay tap to fix a setup issue. The min-delay repair in the incremental step above tries to fix external hold time violations automatically by adjusting the I/O delay taps. This step can also employ the Libero SoC design flow step called **Edit Post Layout Design**, using a separate PDC file \(that is, not managed by Libero Constraints Manager\) containing `edit_io` commands. This allows faster evaluation of I/O delay tuning to close timing, without requiring a new Place and Route until the final delay tap settings are reached. Refer to the [Libero SoC Design Flow User Guide](https://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2022_2/Tool/libero_ecf_ug.pdf) for more information about the Post Layout Editing of I/O Delay Parameters.
-   In the example constraints above, the input\_delay of 0 ns assumes an ideal situation where incoming DATA path is matched to incoming STROBE path from the transmitting device and on the board. You must update the SDC to account for the actual input\_delay from the external TX and board routing, or account for this external skew in the `set_max_delay` and `set_min_delay` constraints shown earlier.

**Parent topic:**[SpaceWire Clock and Data Recovery \(For RT PolarFire and RT PolarFire SoC FPGA Only\)](GUID-AA2047B7-0B02-4347-BF5C-C9AAA9CC2D09.md)

