# Introduction

This document describes the features and supported standards for each<br /> user I/O type, providing details about I/O banks and I/O naming conventions available in<br /> the PolarFire® family. User I/Os support multiple I/O standards<br /> while simultaneously providing the high bandwidth needed to maximize the internal logic<br /> capabilities of the device and achieve the required system-level performance. They are<br /> specifically designed for ease of use and rapid system integration.

The FPGA fabric is common to the PolarFire family, which consists of the following FPGA<br /> devices.

[PolarFire FPGAs](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/fpgas/polarfire-fpgas/polarfire-mid-range-fpgas)
:   Microchip's PolarFire® FPGAs are the fifth-generation family of non-volatile FPGA devices, built on state-of-the-art 28 nm non-volatile process technology. PolarFire FPGAs deliver the lowest power at mid-range densities. PolarFire FPGAs lower the cost of mid-range FPGAs by integrating the industry’s lowest power FPGA fabric, lowest power 12.7 Gbps transceiver lane, built-in low power dual PCI Express Gen2 \(EP/RP\), and, on select data security \(S\) devices, an integrated low-power crypto co-processor.

[PolarFire SoC FPGAs](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/system-on-chip-fpgas/polarfire-soc-fpgas)
:   Microchip's PolarFire SoC FPGAs are the fifth-generation family of non-volatile SoC FPGA devices, built on state-of-the-art 28 nm non-volatile process technology. The PolarFire SoC family offers the industry's first RISC-V®-based SoC FPGAs capable of running Linux®. It combines a powerful 64-bit, 5x core RISC-V Microprocessor Subsystem \(MSS\), based on SiFive’s U54-MC family, with the PolarFire FPGA fabric in a single device.

[RT PolarFire FPGAs](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/radiation-tolerant-fpgas/rt-polarfire-fpgas)
:   Microchip's RT PolarFire FPGAs combine our 60 years of spaceflight heritage with the industry’s lowest-power PolarFire FPGA family to enable new capabilities for space and mission-critical applications. The RT PolarFire FPGA family includes RTPF500T, RTPF500TL, RTPF500TS, RTPF500TLS, RTPF500ZT, RTPF500ZTL, RTPF500ZTS, and RTPF500ZTLS devices.

[RT PolarFire SoC FPGAs](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/radiation-tolerant-fpgas/rt-polarfire-soc)
:   Designed to enable high-performance data processing, our radiation-tolerant PolarFire SoC FPGA is the industry’s first embedded, real-time, Linux-capable, RISC-V-based Microprocessor Subsystem \(MSS\) on the flight-proven RT PolarFire FPGA fabric. With our extensive Mi-V ecosystem, designers can develop lower-power solutions for the challenging thermal environments seen in space. RT PolarFire SoC FPGA family includes RTPFS160ZT, RTPFS160ZTL, RTPFS160ZTS, RTPFS160ZTLS, RTPFS460ZT, RTPFS460ZTL, RTPFS460ZTS, and RTPFS460ZTLS devices.

PolarFire family has two types of user I/Os:

-   General-purpose I/O \(GPIO\)—supports a wide range of I/O standards operating with supplies between 1.2V to 3.3V nominal.
-   High-speed I/O \(HSIO\)—supports I/O standards operating with supplies between 1.2V to 1.8V.

GPIO and HSIO are organized in I/O banks and each I/O bank has dedicated I/O supplies. The unused supplies are connected to ground to reduce noise leakage. In addition to GPIO and HSIO, a number of I/Os are associated with system controller, transceiver clocks, and data pads. These I/Os are powered up independently of other user I/O banks.

The following table summarizes the dedicated I/Os available in the PolarFire family.

|Dedicated<br /> I/Os|PolarFire FPGA \(MPF\)|PolarFire SoC FPGA \(MPFS\)|RT PolarFire FPGA \(RTPF\)|RT PolarFire SoC FPGA \(RTPFS\)|
|----------------------------------|----------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------|
|[GPIO](GUID-73FF0A9E-906C-4EEE-8E60-3EE5850B8C4E.md#GUID-04FBD59D-44EE-4644-BED5-C02A8816CC66)|✓|✓|✓|✓|
|[HSIO](GUID-7F245DAF-42B3-4E38-90C4-3AB0677C9944.md#GUID-3625E2CE-32AC-4EDC-AA14-CBAE1A119548)|✓|✓|✓|✓|
|[MSSIO](GUID-670ADE9D-88A1-432D-B798-CF62DFFB9450.md#GUID-84FE2F60-5013-4633-8B70-BD829B1C8B64)|—|✓|—|✓|
|[MSS-DDR](GUID-6EC77B84-BC70-4D8F-9359-53107EEC01A1.md#GUID-30C29494-3657-44C1-B6D2-24AAE146C8FF)|—|✓|—|✓|
|[MSS-SGMII I/O](GUID-670ADE9D-88A1-432D-B798-CF62DFFB9450.md#GUID-84FE2F60-5013-4633-8B70-BD829B1C8B64)|—|✓|—|✓|

-   **[References](GUID-CD0CF485-A082-48D8-95AA-BFCB0BC70A18.md)**  


