# CoreBclkSclkAlign Training Parameters

The following table lists the parameter and its description.

<table id="TABLE_JNZ_C3F_2XB"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_DIR

</td><td>

<br /> -   1: BCLKSCLK training performed in the forward direction.
-   0: BCLKSCLK training performed in the backward direction.

<br /> **Note:** This parameter is used only for PLL-based clock training. The change in direction can mitigate potential divider pulse glitches as the backward direction lengthens the pulse width, thus reducing the likelihood of glitch occurrences.

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – PLL-based training \(default\)<br /> 1 – ICB Delay-based training <br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

IOG\_FABRIC\_RATIO

</td><td>

<br /> 2 – DDR by 2 mode<br /> 4 – DDR by 4 mode <br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

CLK\_ALGN\_SKIP\_TRNG

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – ICB Delay-based training<br /> 1 – SKIP ICB Delay-based training<br /> This parameter is used in common for PLL/ICB Mode and used internally<br /> in the DUT-based on BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE to connect either PLL or ICB<br /> block.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

CLK\_ALGN\_HOLD\_TRNG

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – ICB Delay-based training<br /> 1 – HOLD ICB Delay-based training<br /> This parameter is used in common for PLL/ICB Mode and used internally<br /> in the DUT-based on BCLKSCLK\_TRN\_MODE to connect either PLL or ICB<br /> block.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_ICB\_MODE

</td><td>

<br /> 0 – 128 Tap delay-based training <br /> 1 – 256 Tap delay-based training \(default\)<br /> This parameter is used only for ICB-based clock training. <br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

BCLKSCLK\_ICB\_TAP\_WAIT\_CNT

</td><td>

<br /> 3 – Width of the tap delay counter \(default\)<br /> This parameter is used only for ICB-based clock training.<br />

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>**Parent topic:**[CoreBclkSclkAlign Coarse Training Timing Diagram](GUID-BC95EECA-1201-4BA4-B277-85B6B1E160D3.md)

