# Filenames

In Tcl syntax, filenames should be enclosed in braces \{ \} to avoid backslash substitution<br /> and white space separation. Backslashes are used to separate folder names in<br /> Windows-based filenames. The problem is that sequences of “\\n” or “\\t” are interpreted<br /> specially. Using the braces disables this special interpretation and specifies that the<br /> Tcl interpreter handle the enclosed string literally. Alternatively, double-backslash<br /> “\\\\n” and “\\\\t” would work as well as forward slash directory separators “/n” and “/t”.<br /> For example, to specify a file on your Windows PC at<br /> `c:\newfiles\thisfile.adb`, use one of the following:

```
{C:\newfiles\thisfile.adb}
C:\\newfiles\\thisfile.adb
"C:\\newfiles\\thisfile.adb"
C:/newfiles/thisfile.adb
"C:/newfiles/thisfile.adb"
```

If there is white space in the filename path, you must use either the braces or<br /> double-quotes. For example:

```
C:\program data\thisfile.adb
```

should be referenced in Tcl script as

```
{C:\program data\thisfile.adb} or "C:\\program data\\thisfile.adb"
```

If you are using variables, you cannot use braces \{ \} because, by default, the braces<br /> turn off all special interpretation, including the dollar sign character. Instead, use<br /> either double-backslashes or forward slashes with double quotes. For example:

```
"$design_name.adb"
```

**Important:** To use a name with special characters such as square brackets \[ \], you must put the entire name between curly braces \{ \} or put a slash character \\ immediately before each square bracket.

**Parent topic:**[Tcl Scripting Overview](GUID-57D1B766-9771-410F-B0F1-9199613DB164.md)

