# create\_generated\_clock

## Description

Creates a generated clock in the current design, at a declared source, by defining its frequency with respect to the frequency at the reference pin. The static timing analysis tool uses this information to compute and propagate its waveform across the clock network to the clock pins of all sequential elements driven by this source.

The generated clock information is also used to compute the slacks in the specified clock domain that drive optimization tools such as place-and-route.

```
create_generated_clock [-name clock_name ] [–add] \
                       [-master_clock clock_name ] \
                       -source reference_pin \
                       [- divide_by divide_factor ] \
                       [-multiply_by multiply_factor ] \
                       [-invert] source [-edges values ] \
                       [-edge_shift values ]
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-9067B7D3-E933-45F8-92AE-56C99CD4A17E"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

`name`

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the name of the clock constraint. If the `-name` option is not used, the generated clock receives the same name specified in the source. The clock name refers to the clock in other commands. You can specify `-name {my_gen_clk}` or `-name my_gen_clk`.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`add`

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that the generated clock constraint is a new clock constraint in addition to the existing one at the same source. Use this option to capture the case where multiple generated clocks must be specified on the same source, because multiple clocks fan into the master pin. If you specify this option, you must also use the `-name` option. The name of the clock constraint should be different from the existing clock constraint. With this option, the `-master_clock` and `-name` options must be specified.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`master_clock`

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the master clock used for the generated clock when multiple clocks fan into the master pin. This option must be used in conjunction with `-add` option of the generated clock. **Note:**

-   The `master_clock` option is used only with the `-add` option for the generated clocks.
-   If there are multiple master clocks fanning into the same reference pin, the first generated clock specified uses the first master clock as its source clock.
-   The clocks generated subsequently, specified with the `-add` option, can choose any of the master clocks as their source clock \(including the first master clock specified\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

`source`

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the reference pin in the design from which the clock waveform is to be derived. You must specify the `-source` reference pin.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`divide_by`

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Specifies the frequency division factor. This option cannot be used with `-egde` list. If `-egde` is specified, the `divide_by` value defaults to one. For example, if the `divide_factor` is equal to 2, the generated clock period is twice the reference clock period. If you set the `divide_by` value to 1.2 or 4/2 or 8a2, it is being truncated as 1 or 4 or 8, and no warning is reported.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`multiply_by`

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Specifies the frequency multiplication factor. This option cannot be used with `-egde` list. If `egde` is specified, the `multiply_by` and `divide_by` values default to 1. For example, if the `multiply_factor` is equal to 2, the generated clock period is half the reference clock period. If you set the `multiply_by` value to 1.2 or 4/2 or 8a2, it is being truncated as 1 or 4 or 8, and no warning is reported.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`invert`

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that the generated clock waveform is inverted with respect to the reference clock.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`source`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies the source of the clock constraint on internal pins of the design. If you specify a clock constraint on a pin that already has a clock, the new clock replaces the existing clock. Only one source is accepted. Wildcards are accepted as long as the resolution shows one pin. You must specify a source.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`edges`

</td><td>

list of integers

</td><td>

Specifies a list of positive integers which represent the edges from the source clock that are to form the edges of the generated clock. To generate the clock, three values must be specified. If you specify less than three values, a tool tip indicates an error. This option cannot be used with the `-divide_by/-multiply_by` factor.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`edge_shift`

</td><td>

list of floating point numbers

</td><td>

Specifies a list of three floating point numbers which represent the amount of shift \(in nanoseconds\) that the specified edges are to undergo to yield the final generated clock waveform. These floating point values can be positive or negative. Positive value indicates a shift later in time, while a negative value indicates a shift earlier in time. With this option, the `-edges` option must be specified.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>**Important:**

In the SmartTime tool, the phase shift specified with the `-phase` argument is treated as a delay within the clock network rather than a waveform translation. As a result, it is not considered when determining the expected clock edges for setup and hold analysis. Consequently, the first active edge of the launch clock serves as the starting point, and the second active edge of the capture clock remains the endpoint, just as it would without a phase shift.

|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|`integer`|Returns the ID of the generated clock constraint.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|Error: SDC0004|Invalid generated clock constraint: Name does not match any clock name or source.|
|Error: SDC0015|Invalid generated clock constraint: Port list is incorrect.|
|Error: SDC0016|Invalid generated clock constraint: Port list is empty.|
|Error: SDC0061|Invalid generated clock constraint: The `-edges` argument is empty invoked from within command.|
|Error: SDC0062|Invalid generated clock constraint: The `-edges` list size must be three.|
|Error: SDC0063|Invalid generated clock constraint: The `-edges` list elements are not in increasing order.|
|Error: SDC0065|Invalid generated clock constraint: The `-edges` cannot be used with the `-multiply_by` or `-divide_by` option.|
|Error: SDC0066|Invalid generated clock constraint: The `-edge_shift` does not have accompanying `-edges`.|
|Error: SDC0069|Invalid clock constraint: Need to specify a clock name with the `-add` option.|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-56F9E300-6CAB-48D0-9D92-B4EC8F62D904"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

IGLOO® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

RTG4™

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example creates a generated clock on pin `U1/reg1:Q` with a period twice as long as the period at the reference port CLK.

```
create_generated_clock -name {my_user_clock} -divide_by 2 \
                       -source [get_ports {CLK}] U1/reg1:Q
```

The following example creates a generated clock at the primary output of myPLL with a period that is three fourth of the period at the reference pin clk.

```
create_generated_clock -divide_by 3 -multiply_by 4 \
                       -source clk [get_pins {myPLL:CLK1}]
```

The following example creates a new generated clock gen2, in addition to gen1, derived from same master clock as the existing generated clock, and the new constraint is added to pin `r1/CLK`.

```
create_generated_clock -name gen1 -multiply_by 1 \
                       -source [get_ports clk1] [get_pins r1/CLK]
create_generated_clock -name gen2 -add -master_clock clk1 \
                       -source [get_ports clk1] \
                       -multiply_by 2 [get_pins r1/CLK]
```

The following example does not create a new generated clock constraint in addition to the existing clock, but overrides even with the `-add` option enabled because the same names are used.

```
create_generated_clock -name gen2 -source [get_ports clk1] \
                       -multiply_by 3 [get_pins r1/CLK]
create_generated_clock -name gen2 -source [get_ports clk1] \
                       -multiply_by 4 -master_clock clk1 \
                       -add [get_pins r1/CLK]
```

The following example shows an SDC constraint for a generated clock of 50 MHz reference clock and 100 MHz output clock with a 90° phase shift.

```
create_generated_clock \
          -name {FCCC_0/GL0} -multiply_by 4 -divide_by 2 \                                             
          -source [get_pins {FCCC_0/CCC_INST/RCOSC_25_50MHZ}] \
          -phase 0 [get_pins {FCCC_0/CCC_INST/GL0}]
```

```
create_generated_clock \
          -name {FCCC_0/GL1} -multiply_by 4 -divide_by 2 \
          -source [get_pins {FCCC_0/CCC_INST/RCOSC_25_50MHZ}] \
          -phase 90 [get_pins {FCCC_0/CCC_INST/GL1}]
```

The following example uses the `-pll_feedback` and the `-pll_output` switches with the `create_generated_clock` constraint when the CCC/PLL is used in the external feedback mode.

**Important:** The following example is supported by PolarFire and RTG4 devices.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_DHZ_4PS_QZB}
create_clock -period 25.000 
-waveform {0.000 12.500} 
-name {sys_clk} [get_ports \{clk}] 

create_generated_clock 
-name {PLL_200MHZ} 
-multiply_by 5 
-source [ get_pins { phase_locked_loop0/pll_pf_40in_40_100_200out_0/pll_inst_0/REF_CLK_0 } ] 
-pll_output [ get_pins { phase_locked_loop0/pll_pf_40in_40_100_200out_0/pll_inst_0/OUT0 } ] 
-pll_feedback [ get_pins { phase_locked_loop0/pll_pf_40in_40_100_200out_0/pll_inst_0/FB_CLK } ] 
-phase 0 [ get_pins { phase_locked_loop0/pll_pf_40in_40_100_200out_0/pll_inst_0/OUT0 } ]
```

The command in the following example implies that the generated clock will have:

-   Rising edge at 2 ns after the first edge of the source clock. This means that the first edge of the source is shifted by 2 ns.
-   Falling edge on the third edge of the source clock. This means that the third edge of the source is shifted by 0 ns.
-   Next rising edge at 2 ns after the third edge of the source clock. This means that the third edge of the source is shifted by 2 ns.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_SKK_L3Q_W2C}
create_generated_clock 
-name PULSE 
-source [get_ports clk] 
-edges {1 3 3} 
-edge_shift {2 0 2}  [get_pins NAND1/Y]
```

**Note:** The three parameters in the `-edges` and `-edge_shift` switches represent, in order, the rising edge, falling edge, and the subsequent rising edge.

## See Also

-   [create\_clock](GUID-4E57FF57-C7A3-4E62-B7FC-7D826501B5BF.md)
-   [remove\_generated\_clock](GUID-F081A933-48A5-4A12-9059-C839A40EEDE8.md)

## Related Examples on GitHub

-   [create\_generated\_clock](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/Libero-SoC-Design-Suite-Tcl-Examples/tree/basic_tcl_examples/SmartTime/create_generated_clock)

**Parent topic:**[SmartTime Tcl Commands](GUID-96623DD0-9D90-4AFA-90C3-B2BAEEE15670.md)

