# Frequently Asked Questions

A compilation of FAQs, common problems and their solutions.

## Overview

What is the input software language to SmartHLS?
:   The input language to SmartHLS is C/C++. For compiling to hardware, SmartHLS supports most of C/C++, but does not support recursive functions or dynamic memory \(malloc, calloc, new, etc\). Also we do not support the STL C++ library \(vector, map, set, etc.\) and only support a subset of the C math library \(see [Math Library \(math.h\)](Chunk120481216.md#)\). These unsupported software constructs can be in the software testbench portion of the code, outside of the top-level function to be compiled to hardware \(see [Specifying the Top-level Function](Chunk120481216.md#)\).

What is the generated RTL language?
:   Currently, SmartHLS only supports Verilog HDL output.

Which FPGAs do you support?
:   See: [Supported FPGA Devices](Chunk1458482460.md#)

How can I get technical support?
:   See: [Technical Support](Chunk1803945671.md#)

What if running my program leads to segmentation fault due to lack of available stack space?
:   Linux has a default stack size of 8 MBs. As a result, using more than 8 MBs of stack in your code will lead to page fault. To overcome this issue, you can do one of the following:

    1.  Use the `ulimit -s NEW_STACK_SIZE` command in terminal to increase stack limit.
    2.  Declare your large variables as `static`. By using the `static` key word, the variables are moved to heap and no longer occupy stack space.

