# Simulating Your Design

To simulate your design outside of Libero \(that is, using your own simulation environment and simulator\), perform the following steps:

1.  Design Files
    1.  Pre-Synthesis simulation:
        -   Import your RTL into your simulation project.
        -   For each [Component Manifests](GUID-CBA28D38-9B16-4D6E-B465-EF0C370A2E37.md) Report.
            -   Import each file under **HDL source files for all Synthesis and Simulation tools** into your simulation project.
        -   Compile these files as per your simulator's instructions.
    2.  Post-synthesis simulation:
        -   Import your post-synthesis `*.edn` or `*.vm` netlist \(generated in [Synthesizing Your Design](GUID-244611A3-3F5A-4D50-B82B-0FC6D68FD0AA.md)\) into your simulation project and compile it.
    3.  Post-layout simulation:
        -   First, complete implementing your design \(see [Implementing Your Design](GUID-2826DBB6-6A86-4A1B-862D-76DACC8E3F65.md)\). Make sure that your final Libero project is in post-layout state.
        -   Double-click `Generate BackAnnotated Files`in the Libero Design Flow window. It generates two files:

            ```
            <project directory>/designer/<root>/<root>_ba.v/vhd <project directory>/designer/<root>/<root>_ba.sdf 
            ```

        -   Import both of these files into your simulation tool.
2.  Stimulus and Configuration files:
    1.  For each [Component Manifests](GUID-CBA28D38-9B16-4D6E-B465-EF0C370A2E37.md) Report:
        -   Copy all files under the `Configuration files to be used for all Simulation tools` and `Stimulus Files for all Simulation Tools` sections to the root directory of your Simulation project.
    2.  Make sure that any Tcl files in the preceding lists \(in step [2.a](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-6D4481D7-AF25-42C7-88E6-F848EAF01EC1)\) are executed first, before the start of simulation.
    3.  For SmartFusion 2 only:
        -   Review the `subsystem.bfm` file. Based on your usage of the MDDR, FDDR, or SerDes, make sure that the following lines are present \(or absent\) in the `subsystem.bfm` file — their presence indicates that the Component is used in your design. Absence indicates that the Component is not used:

            ```
            #----------------------------------- # Peripheral Initialization #-------------------------------------#define USE_MDDR #define USE_FDDR #efine USE_SERDESIF_0 #define USE_SERDESIF_1 #define USE_SERDESIF_2 # define USE_SERDESIF_3 
            ```

    4.  ENVM\_init.mem: If you use the eNVM \(SmartFusion 2 or IGLOO 2\), or if you use IGLOO 2 and use MDDR, FDDR, or SerDes, you must use the `pa4mssenvmgen.exe` to generate the `ENVM_init.mem` file, regardless of whether or not you use eNVM. The pa4mssenvmgen executable takes all the peripheral `*init.reg` files and the `ENVM.cfg` file as inputs through a Tcl script file and outputs the `ENVM_init.mem` file required for simulations. This `ENVM_init.mem` file is required for component initialization in simulation. This file must be copied to the simulation folder prior to the simulation run. An example showing the pa4mssenvmgen executable usage is provided in the following steps.
    5.  UPROM.mem: If you use RTG4 uPROM, you must use the `pa4rtupromgen.exe` to generate the `UPROM.mem` file. The pa4rtupromgen executable takes the `UPROM.cfg` file as inputs through a Tcl script file and outputs the `UPROM.mem` file required for simulations. This file must be copied to the simulation folder prior to the simulation run. An example showing the pa4rtupromgen executable usage is provided in the following steps.
    6.  UPROM.mem \(PolarFire\): If you use the PolarFire uPROM core in your design with the option **Use content for simulation** enabled for one or more data storage clients that you wish to simulate, you must use the executable pa4rtupromgen \(`pa4rtupromgen.exe on windows`\) to generate the `UPROM.mem` file. The pa4rtupromgen executable takes the `UPROM.cfg` file as inputs through a Tcl script file and outputs the `UPROM.mem` file required for simulations. This `UPROM.mem` file must be copied to the simulation folder prior to the simulation run. An example showing the pa4rtupromgen executable usage is provided in the subsequent steps below. The `UPROM.cfg` file will be available in the directory `<Project>/component/work/<uPROM component name>/<uPROM instance name>` in the Libero project you used to generate the PolarFire uPROM component.
    7.  snvm.mem \(PolarFire\): If you use the PolarFire System Services core in your design and configured the sNVM tab in the core with the option **Use content for simulation** enabled for one or more clients that you wish to simulate, a `snvm.mem` file is automatically generated to the directory `<Project>/component/work/<PolarFire System Services component name>/<uPROM instance name>` in the Libero project you used to generate the PolarFire System Services component. This `snvm.mem` file must be copied to the simulation folder prior to the simulation run.
3.  Create a working folder and a sub-folder named **simulation** under the working folder.

    The pa4mssenvmgen and pa4rtupromgen executable expect the presence of the **simulation** sub folder in the working folder and the `*.tcl` script \(steps [5](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-A282C7CE-A609-4B1A-A404-E805A3A236BE) and [7](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-B2809BAB-46E6-408A-8206-95162174C1EF)\) is placed in the **simulation** sub folder.

4.  For SmartFusion 2 and IGLOO 2 devices, copy all the component `*init.reg` files and the `ENVM.cfg` file from the first Libero project \(for component generation\) into the working folder. Examples of component `*init.reg` files are:

    1.  MDDR\_init.reg
    2.  FDDR\_init.reg
    3.  SERDESIF\_0\_init.reg
    4.  SERDESIF\_1\_init.reg
    5.  SERDESIF\_2\_init.reg
    6.  SERDESIF\_3\_init.reg
    For RTG4, copy the `UPROM.cfg` file from the first Libero project created for component generation \(or the `UPROM.cfg` file with any modified/updated contents\) into the working folder.

    For PolarFire, copy the `UPROM.cfg` file from the first Libero project created for component generation into the working folder.

5.  For an IGLOO 2 device: Paste the following commands in a `*.tcl` script and place it in the simulation folder created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64).

    ```
    Sample*.tcl for IGLOO 2 devices set_device -fam <family_name> -die <internal_die_name> -pkg <internal_pkg_name> set_mddr_reg -path <path_to_MDDR_register_file/MDDR_init.reg> set_fddr_reg -path <path_to_FDDR_register_file/FDDR_init.reg> set_serdesif0_reg -path <path_to_SERDESIF_0_register_file/SERDESIF_0_init.reg> set_serdesif1_reg -path <path_to_SERDESIF_1_register_file/SERDESIF_1_init.reg> set_serdesif2_reg -path <path_to_SERDESIF_2_register_file/SERDESIF_2_init.reg> set_serdesif3_reg -path <path_to_SERDESIF_3_register_file/SERDESIF_3_init.reg> set_input_cfg -path <path_to_ENVM_configuration_file/ENVM.cfg> set_sim_mem -path <path_to_ENVM_Initialization_File/ENVM_init.mem> gen_sim -use_init true 
    ```

    For<br /> the proper internal name to use for the die and package, see the<br /> `*.prjx` file of the first Libero project \(used for component<br /> generation\).

    For IGLOO 2 device, the argument `use_init` must<br /> be set to true for the `gen_sim` command if any of the<br /> `*init.reg` files are used.

    Not all<br /> `*init.reg` in the example `*.tcl` may be<br /> needed. Include the reg file paths for only those peripherals used in the<br /> design.

    The `set_sim_mem` command specifies the path to the<br /> output file `ENVM_init.mem` that is generated upon execution of the<br /> script file with the pa4mssenvmgen executable.

6.  At the command prompt or `cygwin` terminal, go to the working directory created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64). Execute the pa4mssenvmgen command with the-script option and pass to it the `*.tcl` script created in step [5](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-A282C7CE-A609-4B1A-A404-E805A3A236BE).

    For Windows®:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/designer/bin/pa4mssenvmgen.exe \
     --script./simulation/<Tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

    For Linux®:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/bin/pa4mssenvmgen 
    --script./simulation/<tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

7.  SmartFusion 2 device: Paste the following commands in a `*.tcl` script and place it in the simulation folder created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64).

    ```
    Sample *.tcl for SmartFusion 2 devices
    set_device -fam <family> -die <internal_die_name> -pkg <internal_pkg_name>
    set_input_cfg -path <path_to_ENVM.cfg> 
    set_sim_mem -path <path_to_ENVM_Initialization_File/ENVM_init.mem> 
    gen_sim -use_init false
    
    ```

    For the proper internal name to use for the die and package, see the `*.prjx` file of the first Libero project \(used for component generation\).

    The argument `use_init` must be set to false for SmartFusion 2.

    For SmartFusion 2 device, the `set_mddr_reg, set_fddr_reg, and set_serdesif(x)_reg` commands are not needed. All the peripheral register initialization information/data required to run simulations is a part of the `*_init.bfm` files \(listed in the [Component Manifests](GUID-CBA28D38-9B16-4D6E-B465-EF0C370A2E37.md) reports of each component\), which must be copied from the first Libero SoC project \(used for component generation\) to the top level directory of your simulation project \(outside of Libero SoC\).

    Use the `set_sim_mem` command to specify the path to the output file `ENVM_init.mem` that is generated upon execution of the script file with the pa4mssenvmgen executable.

8.  At the command prompt or `cygwin` terminal, go to the working directory created in step [1](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-4FC0EF02-7311-4850-B7C1-0ABC457B338B). Execute the pa4mssenvmgen command with the-script option and pass to it the `*.tcl` script created in step [7](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-B2809BAB-46E6-408A-8206-95162174C1EF).

    For Windows:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/designer/bin/pa4mssenvmgen.exe \
     --script./simulation/<Tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

    For Linux:

    ```
    Libero_SoC_release_installation>/bin/pa4mssenvmgen
     --script./simulation/<tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

9.  RTG4: Paste the following commands in a `*.tcl` script and place it in the simulation folder created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64).

    ```
    Sample *.tcl for RTG4 devices to generate URPOM.mem file from UPROM.cfg
    set_device -fam <family> -die <internal_die_name> -pkg <internal_pkg_name> 
    set_input_cfg -path <path_to_UPROM.cfg> 
    set_sim_mem -path <path_to_UPROM_Initialization_File/UPROM.mem> 
    gen_sim -use_init false 
    
    ```

    For the proper internal name to use for the die and package, see the `*.prjx` file of the first Libero project \(used for component generation\).

    For RTG4, there is a provision to simulate the UPROM by specifying the `UPROM.cfg` file using the `set_input_cfg` command.

    Use the `set_sim_mem` command to specify the path to the output file `UPROM.mem` that is generated upon execution of the script file with the pa4rtupromgen executable.

10. At the command prompt or `cygwin` terminal, go to the working directory created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64). Execute the pa4mssenvmgen command with the-script option and pass to it the `*.tcl` script created in step [9](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-AF361CA6-92AB-4D16-969C-36584EF8D314).

    For Windows:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/designer/bin/pa4rtupromgen.exe
     --script./simulation/<Tcl_script_name>.tcl 
    ```

    For Linux:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/bin/pa4rtupromgen
     --script./simulation/<tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

11. PolarFire: Paste the following commands in a `*.tcl` script and place it in the simulation folder created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64).

    ```
    Sample *.tcl for PolarFire devices to generate URPOM.mem file from UPROM.cfg
    set_device -fam <family> -die <internal_die_name> -pkg <internal_pkg_name> 
    set_input_cfg -path <path_to_UPROM.cfg> 
    set_sim_mem -path <path_to_UPROM_Initialization_File/UPROM.mem> 
    gen_sim -use_init false 
    
    ```

    For the proper internal name to use for the die and package, see the `*.prjx` file of the first Libero project \(used for component generation\).

    The argument `use_init` must be set to false for PolarFire.

    Use the `set_sim_mem` command to specify the path to the output file `UPROM.mem` that is generated upon execution of the script file with the pa4rtupromgen executable.

12. At the command prompt or `cygwin` terminal, go to the working directory created in step [3](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-CF78ABD7-A894-4A64-8575-DC05F8B4BE64). Execute the pa4mssenvmgen command with the-script option and pass to it the `*.tcl` script created in step [11](GUID-85F233D7-CED9-4B4E-A39B-37B732B57B93.md#GUID-BA97E36C-B051-4C62-BA13-26C285E9105B).

    For Windows:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/designer/bin/pa4rtupromgen.exe --script./simulation/<Tcl_script_name>.tcl 
    ```

    For Linux:

    ```
    <Libero_SoC_release_installation>/bin/pa4rtupromgen --script./simulation/<tcl_script_name>.tcl
    ```

13. For SmartFusion 2 and IGLOO 2 devices, after successful execution of the pa4mssenvmgen executable, check that the `ENVM_init.mem` file is generated in the location specified in the `set_sim_mem` command in the `*.tcl` script.

    For RTG4, after successful execution of the pa4rtupromgen executable, check that the `UPROM.mem` file is generated in the location specified in the `set_sim_mem` command in the `*.tcl` script.

    For PolarFire, after successful execution of the pa4rtupromgen executable, check that the `UPROM.mem` file is generated in the location specified in the `set_sim_mem` command in the `*.tcl` script.

14. For SmartFusion 2 and IGLOO 2 devices, copy the generated `ENVM_init.mem` file into the top level simulation project to run simulation \(outside of Libero SoC\).

    For RTG4, copy the generated `UPROM.mem` file into the top level simulation folder of your simulation project to run simulation \(outside of Libero SoC\).

    For PolarFire, to simulate the sNVM contents configured as a part of the PolarFire System Services core, copy the `snvm.mem` file from your first Libero project \(used for component configuration\) into the top level simulation folder of your simulation project to run simulation \(outside of Libero SoC\). To simulate UPROM contents, copy the generated `UPROM.mem` file into the top level simulation folder of your simulation project to run simulation \(outside of Libero SoC\).


**Important:** To simulate the functionality of SoC Components, download the pre-compiled SmartFusion 2/IGLOO 2, RTG4 or PolarFire simulation libraries and import them into your simulation environment as described here. For more details, see [Appendix C—Importing Simulation Libraries into Simulation Environment](GUID-0F9B8F21-6A33-4856-BAB6-F8704914CDDD.md).

