# PROGRAM\_SPI\_FLASH\_IMAGE

## Description

"PROGRAM\_SPI\_FLASH\_IMAGE" is a command tool used in<br /> configure\_tool and run\_tool to program SPI Flash Image with configured<br /> parameters.

**Important:** If the Device ID does not match when running any action, the action will fail.

```
configure_tool -name {PROGRAM_SPI_FLASH_IMAGE} \
               -params {spi_flash_prog_action:procedure}
run_tool -name {PROGRAM_SPI_FLASH_IMAGE}
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-BC27E2A7-AFAA-4E98-8F67-7D9421A8A72A"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

spi\_flash\_prog\_action

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

The acceptable values for this argument are the following: -   ERASE\_SPI\_FLASH - This action erases the entire SPI Flash. Mandatory procedures are: VERIFY\_DEVICE\_ID and ERASE\_DIE.

**Note:** Partial programming of the SPI flash is supported when using PolarFire / PolarFire SoC FPGAs and the FlashPro6 programmer. In that case, the ERASE\_SPI\_FLASH action allows you to erase only selected clients.

-   PROGRAM\_SPI\_IMAGE - This action will erase the entire SPI flash then program the SPI image. Mandatory procedures are: VERIFY\_DEVICE\_ID, ERASE\_DIE and PROGRAM\_IMAGE.
-   READ\_SPI\_IMAGE - This action reads the SPI Image from the SPI Flash. Mandatory procedures are: VERIFY\_DEVICE\_ID and READ\_IMAGE.
-   VERIFY\_SPI\_IMAGE - This action verifies the SPI Image on the SPI Flash. Mandatory procedures are: VERIFY\_DEVICE\_ID and VERIFY\_IMAGE.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Illegal SPI Flash programming action: action\_name.|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-66F2D362-E21D-4878-9863-2E2006A99BB2"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following<br /> example configures "PROGRAM\_SPI\_FLASH\_IMAGE" tool and<br /> runs:

```
configure_tool -name {PROGRAM_SPI_FLASH_IMAGE} \
               -params {spi_flash_prog_action: PROGRAM_SPI_FLASH}
run_tool -name {PROGRAM_SPI_FLASH_IMAGE}
```

**Parent topic:**[Command Tools](GUID-57EC11A5-2069-4086-ADFB-D63113B3E275.md)

