# set\_block\_options

## Description

This command enables you to override the compile option for placement or routing conflicts for an instance of a block

```
set_block_options -inst_name instance_name -placement_conflicts value -routing_conflicts value
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-02A1FC2B-B992-48C9-80F5-A603F1E5A36B"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

`-inst_name instance_name`

</td><td>

Specifies the name of the instance to move. If you do not know the name of the instance, run<br /> a Block report \(**Design** &gt; **Reports** &gt; **Block** &gt; **Interface**\) or look at the names shown in the Block tab. For<br /> more information, see [Chip Planner User Guide](http://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2025_1/Tool/chipplanner_ug.pdf).

</td></tr><tr><td>

`-placement_conflicts value`

</td><td>

Specifies what to do when the software encounters a placement conflict. The acceptable values for this argument are:-   `error` - Compile errors out if any instance from a Designer block becomes unplaced or its routing is deleted. This is the default compile option.
-   `resolve` - If some instances get unplaced for any reason, the non conflicting elements remaining are also unplaced. Basically, if there are any conflicts, nothing from the block is kept.
-   `keep` - If some instances get unplaced for any reason, the non conflicting elements remaining are preserved but not locked. Therefore, the placer can move them into another location if necessary.
-   `lock` - If some instances get unplaced for any reason, the non conflicting elements remaining are preserved and locked.
-   `discard` - Discards any placement from the block, even if there are no conflicts.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`-routing_conflicts value`

</td><td>

Specifies what to do when the software encounters a routing conflict. The acceptable values for this argument are:-   `error` - Compile errors out if any route in any preserved net from a Designer block is deleted.
-   `resolve` - If a route is removed from a net for any reason, the routing for the non- conflicting nets is also deleted. Basically, if there are any conflicts, no routes from the block are kept.
-   `keep` - If a route is removed from a net for any reason, the routing for the non- conflicting nets is kept unlocked. Therefore, the router can re-route these nets.
-   `lock` - If routing is removed from a net for any reason, the routing for the non- conflicting nets is kept as locked, and the router will not change them. This is the default compile option.
-   `discard` - Discards any routing from the block, even if there are no conflicts.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Exceptions

-   You must import this PDC command as an NDC file.
-   If placement is discarded, the routing is automatically discarded too.


## Example

The following example moves the entire block \(instance name instA\) 12 columns to the right and 3 rows up.

```
move_block -inst_name instA -right 12 -up 3 -non_logic move
```

The following example makes the designer software display an error if any instance from a block becomes unplaced or the routing is deleted.

```
set_block_options -inst_name instA -placement_conflicts ERROR -routing_conflicts ERROR
```

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|Supported Versions|
|------------------|------------------|
|PolarFire® FPGAs|v12.4+|

## See Also

-   [move\_block](GUID-A21592CD-E420-49D3-BFC6-60AC4F4773DC.md)

**Parent topic:**[Block PDC Commands](GUID-2D0DA585-7C7C-41D9-8A2C-D4F5AD9A0070.md)

