# auto\_construct\_job\_project

## Description

This Tcl command is available in the developer mode only. It creates a new job project by running auto construct that has a JTAG chain with all the devices disabled. You can save and re-open projects with all devices disabled.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_NCJ_B1H_42C}
auto_construct_job_project \
         -job_project_location {./} \
         -job_name {KR_rotate_1} \
         -programmer {S201Z7NKMY} \
        -overwrite 0
```

## System Behaviour

The programmer parameter is processed based on the availability of connected programmers. The following outlines how the tool behaves in different scenarios:

-   If the programmer parameter is missing and there is one connected programmer, it is used for auto construct.
-   If multiple programmers are connected, the command fails.
-   If the programmer parameter is set but the specified programmer is not connected while another programmer is connected, the command runs auto construct on the connected programmer.

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-B2A10C1A-50C9-4E05-9C03-676F1EE9DF9B"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

-job\_project\_location location

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the location for your FlashPro Express job project

</td></tr><tr><td>

-job\_name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specify the name of the Flashpro Express job project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

-programmer

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specify the name of the connected programmer.**Note:** This is an optional parameter.

</td></tr><tr><td>

-overwrite

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Set value to 0 to overwrite your existing job project. **Note:** This is an optional parameter.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-96C44523-DCDF-4944-A110-A99776FF5855"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example creates a job project named `test.job` in the `\fpexpress` directory. It does not overwrite the existing job project.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_OCJ_B1H_42C}
auto_construct_job_project \
-job_project_location {D:\fpexpress} \
-job_name {test} \
-programmer {138015F} \
–overwrite 0\
```

## See Also

-   create\_job\_project
-   open\_project

**Parent topic:**[FlashPro Express Tcl Commands](GUID-4320979B-E17A-424D-ABEB-FC0D4BBACB08.md)

