# Appendix B—Importing Simulation Libraries into Simulation Environment

The default simulator for RTL simulation with Libero SoC is QuestaSim® Pro ME.<br /> Pre-compiled libraries for default simulator are available with Libero installation at<br /> directory<br /> `<install_location>/Designer/lib/questasim/precompiled/vlog`<br /> for supported families.

Libero SoC also supports other third-party simulators editions of ModelSim, VCS,<br /> Xcelium™, Active HDL, and Riviera Pro. Download respective pre-compiled libraries from<br /> the [Pre-Compiled Simulation Libraries](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/products/fpgas-and-plds/fpga-and-soc-design-tools/pre-compiled-simulation-libraries)<br /> page based on the simulator and its version.

Similar to Libero environment, `run.do` file must be created to run<br /> simulation outside Libero.

Create a simple `run.do` file that has commands to establish library<br /> for compilation results, library mapping, compilation, and simulation. Follow the steps<br /> to create a basic `run.do` file.

1.  Create a logical library to store compilation results using `vlib` command

    `vlib presynth.`

2.  Map the logical library name to pre-compiled library directory using `vmap` command `vmap <logical_name> <pre-compiled directory path>.`
3.  Compile source files—use language-specific compiler commands to compile design files into working directory.
    -   `vlog` for `.v/.sv`
    -   `vcom` for `.vhd`
4.  Load the design for simulation using `vsim` command by specifying name of any top-level module.
5.  Simulate the design using run command.

After loading the design, simulation time is set to zero, and you can enter the run<br /> command to begin simulation.

In the simulator transcript window, execute `run.do` file as<br /> `run.do` run the simulation. Sample `run.do`<br /> file as follows.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_B4J_LFX_Z5B .language-python}
quietly set ACTELLIBNAME PolarFire 
quietly set PROJECT_DIR "W:/Test/basic_test" 
if {[file exists presynth/_info]} { echo "INFO: Simulation library presynth exists" } 
else { file delete -force presynth vlib presynth } 
vmap presynth presynth 
vmap PolarFire "X:/Libero/Designer/lib/questasim/precompiled/vlog/PolarFire" 
vlog -sv -work presynth "${PROJECT_DIR}/hdl/top.v" 
vlog "+incdir+${PROJECT_DIR}/stimulus" -sv -work presynth "${PROJECT_DIR}/stimulus/tb.v" 
vsim -L PolarFire -L presynth -t 1ps presynth.tb add wave /tb/* run 1000ns log /tb/* 
exit
```

