# publish\_block

## Description

Tcl command publishes a block with the conditions related to place and route. This is the project\_setting command. To enable Block Creation for a new project:

1.  Select **New Project** from the **Libero SoC Project** menu.
2.  Check the **Enable Block Creation** checkbox.
3.  Select the **Enhanced Constraint Flow** for the new project. In an existing project, from the **Project** menu, select **Project Settings** &gt; **Design Flow** and check the **Enable Block Creation** checkbox.
4.  After Block Creation is enabled, **Publish Block** appears in the **Design Flow** window.
5.  Expand **Publish Design**, right-click **Publish Block** and select **Export** from the context-menu that appears. By default, this option is not unchecked.

```
publish_block -file {absolute or relative path} \
              [-publish_placement value] \
              [-publish_routing value] \
              [-publish_region value] \
              [-vhdl value ]
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-3EF86843-92A5-4C7E-B2EE-CF1D18E1182D"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

file

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the location \(absolute or relative\) to publish the block. Default is /designer/&lt;designer\_name&gt;/&lt;designer\_name&gt;.cxz.

</td></tr><tr><td>

publish\_placement

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false -   FALSE, false, 0 - no placement or routing will be published and preserved. Only the netlist is preserved.
-   TRUE, true, 1 - publishes placement if all the macros in your design are placed or assigned to a region. Default this box is checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

publish\_routing

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false -   FALSE, false, 0 - routing will not be published and added to the block. This block will be completely rerouted completely in the top design.
-   TRUE, true, 1 - publish routing to be part of the block. `publish_placement` must be 1 for this option to take effect. All the macros should be placed or assigned to a region. Default this box is checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

publish\_region

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false -   FALSE, false, 0 - region constraints are not added to the block published.
-   TRUE, true, 1 - Region constraints will be published and preserved. This is not recommended and should be done only if the user wants to keep the regions in the top design. Example: the user wants to see an empty region in the top design. In general, the regions used to control placement should not be part of the block. Default this box is checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

vhdl

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false -   FALSE, false, 0 - generates a Verilog netlist to be used for synthesis and simulation. Default value.
-   TRUE, true, 1 - generates a VHDL file format.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Required parameter 'file' is missing.|
|None|Required parameter 'publish\_placement' is missing.|
|None|Required parameter 'publish\_routing' is missing.|
|None|Required parameter 'publish\_region' is missing.|
|None|publish\_placement: Invalid argument value: 'value' \(expecting TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false\).|
|None|publish\_routing: Invalid argument value: '' \(expecting TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false\).|
|None|publish\_region: Invalid argument value: 'value' \(expecting TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false\).|
|None|vhdl: Invalid argument value: 'value' \(expecting TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false\).|
|None|Parameter 'param\_name' is not defined. Valid command formatting is 'publish\_block -file "Publish Block file Name" \\ -publish\_placement "TRUE \| FALSE" \\ -publish\_routing "TRUE \| FALSE" \\ -publish\_region "TRUE \| FALSE" \\ \[-vhdl "TRUE \| FALSE"\]'.|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

The following example exports Publish Block file in the `\test_block\designer\top\top.cxz` file, generates a Verilog netlist. Publishes placement and region if all the macros in your design are placed or assigned to a region:

```
publish_block -file {D:\test_block\designer\top\top.cxz} \
              -publish_placement 1 -publish_routing 1 -publish_region 1 \
              -vhdl 0
```

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

