# Libero SoC Project Creation

Some design steps must be run inside the Libero SoC environment \([Table   1](GUID-A37221FD-A433-48C8-92E2-E0E51BC1034D.md#GUID-7DBC6370-9E6A-488B-805F-C76FEB5E167E)\). For these steps to run, you must create two Libero SoC projects. The first project is used for design component configuration and generation, and the second project is for the physical implementation of the top-level design.

-   The enhanced constraint flow is used for both the first project and the second \(implementation\) project because the enhanced constraint flow offers the constraint manager to better manage all design constraints \(SDC Timing, IO PDC, Floorplanning PDC, and Synthesis NDC constraints\). The creation, import, and editing of constraints and their association with individual design tools are controlled in one single management tool—the Constraint Manager.
-   The enhanced constraint flow generates automatic SDC and PDC constraints for common cores such as the CCC, OSC, SerDes, and so on. For RTG4 designs using the RTG4FCCCECALIB core, the automatic constraint generation \(Derive Constraints\) generates netlist constraint files \(NDC\). In addition, SDC files are generated for association with synthesize or compile Netlist design flow steps. The SDC, PDC, or NDC constraints of these cores are set from the top of the design hierarchy with the full hierarchical path given. You do not need to traverse from the top of the design hierarchy to set a constraint on these IP cores, nor do you need to worry about the syntax of the SDC, PDC, or NDC constraints such as hierarchy and pin separators, design object names, and so on.
-   The automatically generated constraints, when applied, increase the chance of timing closure with less effort and fewer design iterations.

**Parent topic:**[Overview](GUID-A37221FD-A433-48C8-92E2-E0E51BC1034D.md)

