# SPM

## Description

"SPM" is a command tool used in configure\_tool. To configure security using Tcl, you must use the configure\_tool Tcl command to pass the SPM configuration parameters.

**Note:** At least one "parameter:value" must be specified. You can repeat `-params` argument for multiple parameters.

```
configure_tool -name {SPM} -params {parameter:value}
```

## Arguments

The following table list the "SPM" arguments for PolarFire.

<table id="GUID-8D72FB7F-A976-41C8-ACB4-16583BAA4BE6"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

back\_level\_protection

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible value for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to set back level protection; Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_passkey

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of DPK, value must be 64 hex characters; Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_authenticate\_action

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables Authenticate action. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_autoprog\_iap\_services

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables Auto Programming and IAP Services. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_debug\_jtag\_boundary\_scan

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables debug JTAG Boundary Scan. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_debug\_read\_temp\_volt

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables reading temperature and voltage sensor \(JTAG/SPI Slave\). The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_debug\_ujtag

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables debug; UJTAG. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_ext\_zeroization

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables external zeroization through JTAG/SPI Slave. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_external\_digest\_check

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables external Fabric/sNVM digest requests through JTAG/SPI Slave. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_jtag

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables JTAG. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_program\_action

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables Program action. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_puf\_emulation

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables external access to PUF emulation through JTAG/SPI Slave The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_smartdebug\_debug

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables user debug access and active probes. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_smartdebug\_live\_probe

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables SmartDebug Live Probe. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_smartdebug\_snvm

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables SmartDebug sNVM. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_spi\_slave

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables SPI Slave interface. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_user\_encryption\_key\_1

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables UEK1; Key Mode Policy. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_user\_encryption\_key\_2

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables UEK2; Key Mode Policy. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_verify\_action

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables Verify action. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

fabric\_update\_protection

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Fabric update protection. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   open - updates allowed using user defined encryption keys.
-   disabled - disables Erase/Write operations.

</td></tr><tr><td>

security\_factory\_access

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Microchip factory test mode access. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   open - factory test mode access allowed.
-   disabled - disables factory test mode access.

</td></tr><tr><td>

security\_key\_mode

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Key mode access. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   custom - custom security options.
-   default - bit stream encryption with default key.

</td></tr><tr><td>

snvm\_update\_protection

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

sNVM update protection. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   open - updates allowed using user defined encryption keys.
-   disable - disables Write operations.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_encryption\_key\_1

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UEK1, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_encryption\_key\_2

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UEK2, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_passkey\_1

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of Flashlock/UPK1, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_passkey\_2

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of Flashlock/UPK2, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>The following table list the "SPM" arguments for SmartFusion 2 and IGLOO 2.

<table id="GUID-69A7086B-AF47-4544-B80A-07E516B7C98B"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

back\_level\_bypass

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to bypass<br /> the back level protection; Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

back\_level\_protection

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to set<br /> back level protection; Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

back\_level\_update\_version

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Specify back level version value between 0 and 65535; Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_cortex\_m3

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable<br /> Cortex M3 debug. This lock bit is protected by DPK; Debug Policy;<br /> SmartFusion 2 only.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_digest\_request

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible value for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable design digest check request via JTAG and SPI. Use FlashLock/UPK1 to allow digest check; Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_disable\_jtag

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable<br /> JTAG \(1149.1\) test instructions \(HIGHZ, EXTEST, INTEST, CLAMP,<br /> SAMPLE, and PRELOAD\). I/Os will be tri-stated when in JTAG<br /> programming mode. Use FlashLock/UPK1 to unlock; Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_passkey

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of DPK, value must be 64 hex characters; Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

debug\_ujtag\_access

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable<br /> access to UJTAG. Use DPK to unlock; Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_user\_encryption\_key\_1

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible value for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable UEK1; Key Mode Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_user\_encryption\_key\_2

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible value for this argument are: true, 1 , false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable UEK2; Key Mode Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_user\_encryption\_key\_3

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables UEK3; Key Mode Policy. The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or<br /> 0. **Note:** UEK3 is only available for M2S060, M2GL060, M2S090, M2GL090, M2S150, and M2GL150 devices. All other devices will set this to false by default.

</td></tr><tr><td>

factory\_access

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets Microchip factory test mode access level. The possible values for this argument are the<br /> following: -   Open - All Microchip factory test mode access without FlashLock/UPK1.
-   FlashLock\(default\) - Microchip factory test mode is disabled. FlashLock/UPK1 is required to unlock.
-   Permanent - Permanently disable Microchip factory test mode access

</td></tr><tr><td>

iap\_isp\_services

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to disable access to IAP/ISP services; Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

security\_key\_mode

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Key mode access. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   Custom - Custom security settings. Allows user encryption keys, security policy settings, and Microchip factory test mode access level.
-   Default - Bitstream encryption with default key. No security lock bits are set.

</td></tr><tr><td>

smartdebug\_access

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Debug Policy. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   Full - SmartDebug has full access to debug features.
-   None - Disable read/write access to SmartDebug architecture. DPK is required for read/write access.

</td></tr><tr><td>

update\_auto\_prog\_lock

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables Auto Programming; Update Policy. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

update\_envm\_protection

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Update Policy. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   Passkey - eNVM updates are disabled. Use FlashLock/UPK1 to unlock Write/Verify/Read operations.
-   Open - Updates to eNVM are allowed using UEK1 or UEK2; FlashLock/UPK1 is NOT required for updates.

</td></tr><tr><td>

update\_fabric\_protection

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Update Policy. The possible values for this argument are the following: -   Passkey - Fabric updates are disabled. Use FlashLock/UPK1 to unlock Erase/Write/Verify/ operations.
-   Open - Updates to Fabric are allowed using UEK1 or UEK2; FlashLock/UPK1 is NOT required for updates.

</td></tr><tr><td>

update\_jtag\_lock

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables access to JTAG programming. Use FLashLock/UPK1 to unlock; Update Policy. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

update\_spi\_slave\_lock

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Disables access to SPI Slave. Use FLashLock/UPK1 to unlock; Update Policy. The possible value for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_debug\_policy

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to used<br /> Debug Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_key\_mode\_policy

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to used Key<br /> Mode Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_update\_policy

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to used<br /> Update Policy.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_user\_key\_set\_1

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to enable<br /> User Key Set 1.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_user\_key\_set\_2

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to enable<br /> User Key Set 2.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use\_user\_key\_set\_3

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are: true, 1, false or 0. Specify true or 1 to enable<br /> User Key Set 3. **Note:** User Key Set 3 is only available for M2S060, M2GL060, M2S090, M2GL090, M2S150, and M2GL150 devices.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_encryption\_key\_1

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UEK1, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_encryption\_key\_2

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UEK2, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_encryption\_key\_3

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UEK3, value must be 64 hex characters. **Note:** UEK3 is only available for M2S060, M2GL060, M2S090, M2GL090, M2S150, and M2GL150 devices. All other devices will set this to false by default.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_passkey\_1

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of Flashlock/UPK1, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_passkey\_2

</td><td>

hexadecimal

</td><td>

Specify value of UPK2, value must be 64 hex characters.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_security\_policy\_protection

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

The possible values for this argument are the following: -   FlashLock - User keys and Security policies will be protected from erase/write by FlashLock/UPK1.
-   Permanent - Permanently protect UEK1, UEK2, Security Policies, and Microchip factory test mode access level.

**Note:** Once programmed, these settings cannot be changed.


</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Integer|Returns 0 on success and 1 on failure.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Required parameter 'params' is missing.|
|None|Key size is incorrect.|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|PolarFire SoC|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

The following example configures SPM for PolarFire:

```
configure_tool \
         -name {SPM} \
         -params {back_level_protection:false} \
         -params {disable_smartdebug_live_probe:false} \
         -params {disable_smartdebug_snvm:false} \
         -params {disable_user_encryption_key_1:false} \
         -params {disable_user_encryption_key_2:false}
```

The following example configures SPM for SmartFusion 2:

```
configure_tool \
         -name {SPM} \
         -params {back_level_bypass:false} \
         -params {back_level_protection:false} \
         -params {back_level_update_version: 32} \
         -params {debug_cortex_m3:false} \
         -params {debug_digest_request:false} \
         -params {debug_disable_jtag:false} \
         -params {debug_passkey:8A1081239567235A7453336CFBBC45668754SADDCAFA7010FA209F7396F3EA17} \
         -params {debug_ujtag_access:false} \
         -params {disable_user_encryption_key_1:false} \
         -params {disable_user_encryption_key_2:false} \
         -params {disable_user_encryption_key_3:false} \
         -params {factory_access:flashlock} \
         -params {iap_isp_services:true} \
         -params {security_key_mode:custom} \
         -params {smartdebug_access:full} \
         -params {update_auto_prog_lock:true} \
         -params {update_envm_protection:passkey} \
         -params {update_fabric_protection:passkey} \
         -params {update_jtag_lock:false} \
         -params {update_spi_slave_lock:false} \
         -params {use_debug_policy:false} \
         -params {use_key_mode_policy:false} \
         -params {use_update_policy:false} \
         -params {use_user_key_set_1:true} \
         -params {use_user_key_set_2:false} \
         -params {use_user_key_set_3:false} \
         -params {user_encryption_key_1:9E108123949848EC7453336DFBBC0CAE60C8541C2AFA7010FA209F7396F3EA17} \
         -params {user_encryption_key_2:4D5656BA56541156C54E54563D2114BC45C854B456563010FA265F7396F3EA17} \
         -params {user_encryption_key_3:CA5665B39498DAEC745355BDFB89535BA4A45DFC2AFA7010FA209F7396F3EA17} \
         -params {user_passkey_1:252BED2AB1C4C5BAE13C4791CEDF7A069D940A6935629A0A9CE5B24E21C13D39} \
         -params {user_passkey_2:B59EAD2356B66DAAE1654981BEA57A045653231CA5547A0A99AD254E234BCA39} \
         -params {user_security_policy_protection:flashlock}
```

**Parent topic:**[Command Tools](GUID-57EC11A5-2069-4086-ADFB-D63113B3E275.md)

