# export\_prog\_job

## Description

This Tcl command configures the parameters for the FlashPro Express programming job to be exported.

**Note:** The Programming Mode \(JTAG/SPI-Slave\) setting from the Programming Connectivity and Interface tool will be exported in the job file.

RTG4 devices do not support the security options supported by SmartFusion 2<br /> and IGLOO 2 devices.

The syntax for the export programming job Tcl command for SmartFusion 2 and IGLOO 2 is shown<br /> below:

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {file} \
-export_dir {absolute or relative path} \
-bitstream_file_type {TRUSTED_FACILITY | MASTER | UEK1 | UEK2} \
-bitstream_file_components {SECURITY | FABRIC | ENVM} \
-include_plaintext_passkey {0 | 1} \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD | STP} \
-prog_optional_procedures \
{action1 | procedure1 | procedure2 ; action2 | procedure1 | procedure2 | procedure3;}
```

The syntax for the export programming job Tcl command for RTG4 is below:

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {file} \
-export_dir {dir} \
-force_rtg4_otp {0 | 1} \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD | STP}
```

The syntax for the export programming job Tcl command for PolarFire is below:

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {file} \
-export_dir {dir} \
-bitstream_file_type {TRUSTED_FACILITY | MASTER | UEK1 | UEK2} \
-bitstream_file_components {SECURITY | ENVM | FABRIC | SNVM | FABRIC_SNVM} \
-zeroization_likenew_action {0 | 1} \
-zeroization_unrecoverable_action {0 | 1} \
-program_design {0 | 1} \
-program_spi_flash {0 | 1} \
-include_plaintext_passkey {0 | 1} \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD | STP} \
-prog_optional_procedures \
{action1|procedure1|procedure2;action2|procedure1|procedure2|procedure3;} \
-skip_recommended_procedures \
{action1 | procedure1 | procedure2 ; action2 | procedure1 | procedure2 | procedure3;}
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-0E177BEC-72BF-4AEE-9CD3-BE1BED7159DE"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

job\_file\_name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

The name of the exported file. Name must start with design name. If omitted, design name will be used.

</td></tr><tr><td>

export\_dir

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Location where the job file will be saved; any folder can be specified \(absolute or release path\). The default folder is the Libero designer/&lt;design\_name&gt;/export folder.

</td></tr><tr><td>

force\_rtg4\_otp

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enforces the use of one-time programming \(OTP\). This argument is optional. Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. The default value is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

bitstream\_file\_type

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Bitstream file to be included in the programming job. Only one bitstream file can be included in a programming job. Possible values are: TRUSTED\_FACILITY, MASTER, UEK1, UEK2 or UEK3. If omitted, type will be TRUSTED\_FACILITY.

</td></tr><tr><td>

bitstream\_file\_components

</td><td>

list of components

</td><td>

The list of components to be included in the programming job. Components should be delimited by space. `bitstream_file_components` can be any one of SECURITY, ENVM, FABRIC SNVM \(only PolarFire\) or FABRIC\_SNVM \(only PolarFire\) any combination of them.**Note:**

1.  The SECURITY option is available in `-bitstream_file_components` only when file type is MASTER in `-bitstream_file_type`.
2.  SNVM must always be programmed with FABRIC.
3.  Security-only programming must be performed only on erased or new devices. If performed on a device with fabric programmed, the fabric will be disabled after performing security-only programming. You must reprogram the fabric to re-enable it.

</td></tr><tr><td>

include\_plaintext\_passkey

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Includes plaintext passkey. Valid values are: TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. This argument is optional. Default is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

design\_bitstream\_format

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the bitstream file formats to be exported. Space is used as a delimiter. The value can be any one of PPD, STP. If omitted, the bitstream file will be in PPD format. -   PPD will allow for improved programming times with FlashPro6 programmer.
-   Use STAPL for static algorithm and data from release to release.

</td></tr><tr><td>

prog\_optional\_procedures

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies optional procedures to program. Format: action1 \| procedure1 \| procedure2; action2 \| procedure1 \| procedure2 \| procedure3; Available actions and procedures depend on the selected bitstream components. Mandatory procedures are always included. See the section [Configure Actions and Procedures](https://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2021_2/Tool/libero_ecf_ug.pdf) for supported actions and procedures.

</td></tr><tr><td>

zeroization\_likenew\_action

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Specifies that all data will be erased and the device can be reprogrammed immediately. Valid values are TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. Default is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

zeroization\_unrecoverable\_action

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Specifies that all data will be erased. The device cannot be reprogrammed and it must be scrapped. Valid values are TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. Default is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

program\_design

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Specifies to program the design. This argument is optional. Valid values are TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. Default is 1.

</td></tr><tr><td>

program\_spi\_flash

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Specifies to program SPI Flash. Configure it before using. Use the Configure Design Initialization Data and Memories tool to configure it. This argument is optional. Valid values are TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false. Default is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

skip\_recommended\_procedures

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies recommended procedures to skip. Format: action1 \| procedure1 \| procedure2; action2 \| procedure1 \| procedure2 \| procedure3; See the section [Configure Actions and Procedures](https://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2021_2/Tool/libero_ecf_ug.pdf) for supported actions and procedures.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|integer|Returns 0 on success, 1 on failure.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|bitstream\_file\_type: Invalid argument value: 'A' \(expecting MASTER, UEK1, UEK2, UEK3 or TRUSTED\_FACILITY\).|
|None|bitstream\_file\_components: Invalid argument value: 'A' \(expecting SECURITY, FABRIC, SNVM, ENVM or FABRIC\_SNVM\).|
|None|Custom security component is available for Master bitstream file only.|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

**SmartFusion 2/IGLOO 2**

The following example exported FlashPro Express programming job in X:\\12.0\_Release\\g4\_fftousram\\designer\\top\\export\\top file. Included MASTER Bitstream file with PPD format, SECURITY and FABRIC components, plaintext passkey and specified PROGRAM, DO\_VERIFY; optional procedures to program:

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {top} \
-export_dir {X:\12.0_Release\g4_fftousram\designer\top\export} \
-bitstream_file_type {MASTER} \
-bitstream_file_components {SECURITY FABRIC} \
-include_plaintext_passkey 1 \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD} \
-prog_optional_procedures {PROGRAM | DO_VERIFY;}
```

**RTG4**

The following example exported FlashPro Express programming job in X:\\12.0\_Release\\rtg4\_ff\_usram\\designer\\top\\export\\top file with PPD format and also enforces the use of one-time programming \(OTP\):

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {top} \
-export_dir {X:\12.0_Release\rtg4_ff_usram\designer\top\export} \
-force_rtg4_otp 1 \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD}
```

**PolarFire**

The following example exported FlashPro Express programming job in X:\\12.0\_Release\\pf\_fftousram\_ac\_latch\_launch\\designer\\fftousra\\fftousram file. Included MASTER Bitstream file with PPD format, SECURITY, FABRIC and SNVM components, plaintext passkey and specified PROGRAM, DO\_VERIFY; optional procedures to program, programs the design and device is not reprogrammed:

```
export_prog_job \
-job_file_name {fftousram} \
-export_dir {X:\12.0_Release\pf_fftousram_ac_latch_launch\designer\fftousram\export} \
-bitstream_file_type {MASTER} \
-bitstream_file_components {SECURITY FABRIC SNVM} \
-zeroization_likenew_action 0 \
-zeroization_unrecoverable_action 0 \
-program_design 1 \
-program_spi_flash 0 \
-include_plaintext_passkey 0 \
-design_bitstream_format {PPD} \
-prog_optional_procedures {PROGRAM | DO_VERIFY;} \
-skip_recommended_procedures {VERIFY_DIGEST | DO_ENABLE_FABRIC;}
```

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

