# set\_modelsim\_options

## Description

This Tcl command sets your ModelSim simulation options. You can set change how Libero SoC handles Do files in simulation, import your own Do files, set simulation run time, and change the DUT name used in your simulation. You can sets options from the **Project Settings** &gt; **Simulation** menu. Default values are used if parameters are omitted.

```
set_modelsim_options \
[-use_automatic_do_file "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-user_do_file {path}] \
[-sim_runtime {value}] \
[-tb_module_name {value}] \
[-tb_top_level_name {value}] \
[-include_do_file "TRUE | FALSE" \
[-included_do_file {value}] \
[-type {value}] \
[-resolution {value}] \
[-add_vsim_options {value}] \
[-display_dut_wave "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-log_all_signals "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-do_file_args {value}] \
[-dump_vcd "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-vcd_file "VCD file name"] \
[-sdf_corner "sdf_corner"] \
[-verilog {value}] \
[-VHDL {value}] \
[-disable_pulse_filtering "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-timeunit {value}] \
[-timeunit_base {value}] \
[-precision {value}] \
[-precision_base {value}]
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-2D321326-FCC2-4B06-B06E-EBA7609FA185"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

use\_automatic\_do\_file

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Automatically create a DO file that enables you to simulate your design. Following are the valid values: -   TRUE, true, 1 - uses the default `automatic.do` file in your project. This box is checked by default.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - uses a different `*.do` file; use the other simulation options to specify it.

</td></tr><tr><td>

user\_do\_file

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the location of your user-defined `*.do` file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

sim\_runtime

</td><td>

number and unit of time

</td><td>

Sets your simulation runtime. It is optional. Value is the number and unit of time, such as \{1000 ns\}.

</td></tr><tr><td>

tb\_module\_name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies your test bench module name, where value is the name. Default value is "test bench".

</td></tr><tr><td>

tb\_top\_level\_name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets the top-level instance name in the test bench, where value is the name. Default is &lt;top&gt;\_0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

include\_do\_file

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enables you to include DO file. Valid values are: -   TRUE, true, 1 - Includes the `*.do` file.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Does not include the `*.do` file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

included\_do\_file

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the path of the included `*.do` file, where the value is the name of the file. Including a DO file enables you to customize the set of signal waveforms that will be displayed in ModelSim. Specify this argument with `-include_do_file` argument. Default is `work.do`.

</td></tr><tr><td>

type

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Resolution type; possible values are: -   min - minimum. This is the default value.
-   typ - typical.
-   max - maximum.

</td></tr><tr><td>

resolution

</td><td>

unit of time

</td><td>

Sets your resolution value. Value is the number and unit of time, such as \{1ps\}. The default is family-specific, but you can customize it to fit your needs.

</td></tr><tr><td>

add\_vsim\_options

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Adds more Vsim options, where value specifies the option\(s\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

display\_dut\_wave

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enables ModelSim to display signals for the tested design. Following are the possible values:-   FALSE, false, 0 - displays the signal for the top\_level\_test bench.
-   TRUE, true, 1 - enables ModelSim to display the signals for the tested design.

</td></tr><tr><td>

log\_all\_signals

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Saves and logs all signals during simulation. -   TRUE, true, 1 - logs all signals.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - does not log all signals. Default this box checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

do\_file\_args

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies `*.do` file command parameters. Default is empty.

</td></tr><tr><td>

dump\_vcd

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Dumps the VCD file when simulation is complete. Following are the possible values:-   TRUE, true, 1 - dumps the VCD file
-   FALSE, false, 0 - does not dump the VCD file. Default this box checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

vcd\_file

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the name of the dumped VCD file, where value is the name of the file. Default is "`power.vcd`".

</td></tr><tr><td>

sdf\_corner \{parameter\}

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets the corner on which the post layout simulation will be done. -   slow\_lv\_ht - slow process, low voltage and high temperature operating conditions. Default value.
-   slow\_lv\_lt - slow process, low voltage and low temperature operating conditions.
-   fast\_hv\_lt - fast process, high voltage and low temperature operating conditions.

</td></tr><tr><td>

verilog

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

HDL Testbench file type can be either Verilog or VHDL, possible values are: 1 or 0. Default value is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

VHDL

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

HDL Testbench file type can be either Verilog or VHDL, possible values are: 1 or 0. Default value is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disable\_pulse\_filtering

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Specifies to enable/disable pulse filtering during SDF based simulations. -   TRUE, true, 1 - enable pulse filtering.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - disable pulse filtering. The default value is false.

</td></tr><tr><td>

timeunit

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

TimeScale time unit value. Default value is 1.

</td></tr><tr><td>

timeunit\_base

</td><td>

unit of time

</td><td>

TimeScale precision base value. The default setting is ns, possible values are: -   s - second
-   ms - milisecond
-   us - microsecond
-   ns - nanosecond
-   ps - picosecond
-   fs - femtosecond

</td></tr><tr><td>

precision

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

TimeScale precision value. Default value is 100.

</td></tr><tr><td>

precision\_base

</td><td>

unit of time

</td><td>

TimeScale precision base value. The default setting is ps; possible values are: -   s - second
-   ms - milisecond
-   us - microsecond
-   ns - nanosecond
-   ps - picosecond
-   fs - femtosecond

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

Sets ModelSim options to use the automatic `*.do` file, sets simulation runtime to 1000 ns, sets the testbench module name to "testbench", sets the testbench top level to top\_0, sets simulation type to "max", resolution to 1 ps, adds no vsim options, does not log signals, adds no additional DO file arguments, dumps the VCD file with a name `power.vcd`.

```
set_modelsim_options -use_automatic_do_file 1 -sim_runtime {1000ns} \
-tb_module_name {testbench} -tb_top_level_name {top_0} -include_do_file 0 \
-type {max} -resolution {1ps} -add_vsim_options {} -display_dut_wave 0 \
-log_all_signals 0 -do_file_args {} - dump_vcd 0 -vcd_file {power.vcd}
```

## See Also

-   [set\_actel\_lib\_options](GUID-E5A0CCD7-EB40-4F73-B2AC-7D87C65E8780.md)

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

