# PAUSE Flow Control

MAC transmit logic \(MACTL\) provides native support for PAUSE flow control<br /> frames. PAUSE frames are control frames \(frames with 0x8808 as<br /> the Ether Type\) with a particular DA \(01-80-c2-00-00-01\) and the<br /> Opcode 0x0001. The FIFO-logic automatically Request-to-Send a<br /> PAUSE frame by pulsing transmit-control-request \(TCRQ\) and<br /> provides the pause time value available on<br /> control-frame-register \(CFPT \[15:0\]\). Pause frame payload<br /> contains CFPT and Control Frame Extended Parameter \(CFEP\). Once<br /> a frame is received and detected as a control frame, MAC checks<br /> for the DA and the Opcode fields. If the DA is either the<br /> reserved multicast address used by PAUSE \(01-80-c2-00-00-01\) or<br /> the station’s unique address, and the Opcode is 0x0001, then the<br /> control frame is considered to be a PAUSE Control frame.

When a PAUSE control frame is received:

-   The MAC receive logic \(MACRL\) module indicates the MACTL to pause the stream of data frames and allows control frames transmission to the link partner. When either a PAUSE frame with a zero-value pause time is received or the MACRL pause timer expires, MACTL is considered to be unpaused and normal data frames gets resumed.
-   The pause time value is loaded into the PERMC pause timer. This pause timer is a 16-bit down counter that decrements every pause quanta \(a speed-independent constant of 64 byte-times\). Whenever the pause time counter is nonzero, the MAC is considered to be paused and no data frames are sent.

**Parent topic:**[Functional Description](GUID-1DF3649A-D1B6-4032-BF77-E072F8D8F7FC.md)

