# import\_files

## Description

This Tcl command enables you to import design source files and constraint files.

For importing constraint files, import\_files has retired the `-pdc` parameter for<br /> SmartFusion 2, IGLOO 2, PolarFire and RTG4. It has been replaced with two new<br /> parameters to match the new design flow. Physical Design Constraints \(PDC\) Tcl must<br /> now be divided between I/O attribute and pin information from all floorplanning and<br /> timing constraints. These commands must now reside in and be imported as separate<br /> files. The new parameters specify the type of \*.pdc file being imported. The path to<br /> the file can be absolute or relative but must be enclosed in curly braces \{ \}.

Use the `-convert_EDN_to_HDL` parameter to convert the EDIF file to HDL and then import the converted HDL file.

**Note:** The EDIF File is not imported.

```
import_files \
-schematic {file} \
-symbol {file} \
-smartgen_core {file} \
-ccp {file} \
-stimulus {file} \
-hdl_source {file} \
-io_pdc {file} \
-fp_pdc {file} \
-edif {file} \
-sdc {file} \
-crt {file} \
-dcf {file} \
-vcd {file} \
-saif {file} \
-simulation {file} \
-profiles {file} \
-cxf {file} \
-templates {file} \
-ccz {file} \
-modelsim_ini {file} \
-library {file} \
-convert_EDN_to_HDL {true | false}
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-3C30F737-1CD5-40FF-BE44-D127B7FFE979"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

schematic

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the schematics you wish to import into your IDE project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

symbol

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the symbols you wish to import into your IDE project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

smartgen\_core

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the SmartGen Cores you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

ccp

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the Arm® or Cortex®-M1 cores you wish to<br /> import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each<br /> file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

stimulus

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies HDL stimulus files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

hdl\_source\_folder

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Name of the HDL folder you want to import into your project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

hdl\_source

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the HDL source files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

io\_pdc

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the PDC file that contains the I/O attribute and pin information.

</td></tr><tr><td>

fp\_pdc

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the PDC file that contains the timing and placement information.

</td></tr><tr><td>

edif

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the EDIF files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file. This is a mandatory option if you want to convert EDIF to HDL with the `-convert_EDN_to_HDL` option. This option is not supported in PolarFire.

</td></tr><tr><td>

sdc

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the SDC constraint files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

crt

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the CRT constraint files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must<br /> be repeated for each file. This option is not supported for PolarFire®, SmartFusion®<br /> 2, IGLOO® 2, and RTG4™<br /> families.

</td></tr><tr><td>

dcf

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the DCF constraint files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must<br /> be repeated for each file. **Note:** Not supported for PolarFire, SmartFusion 2, IGLOO 2, and RTG4 families.

</td></tr><tr><td>

vcd

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the VCD constraint files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

saif

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the SAIF constraint files you wish to import into your project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

simulation

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the simulation files you wish to import into your Libero SoC project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

profiles

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the profile files you wish to import into your Libero SoC project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

cxf

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the CXF \(Component\) file you wish to import into your Libero SoC project. Type parameter must be repeated for each file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

templates

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the template file you wish to import into your project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

ccz

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the IP Control core file you wish to import into your project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

modelsim\_ini

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the ModelSIM INI file that you wish to import into your project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

library

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the library file that you wish to import into your project. If a library file is not available it will be created and added to the library.

</td></tr><tr><td>

convert\_EDN\_to\_HDL

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The `-edif` option is mandatory. If the `–edif` option is not specified or the `-convert_EDN_to_HDL` is used with another option, EDIF to HDL conversion will fail.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Unable to find the file 'a.v'.|
|None|Cannot import the 'ProASIC Constraint Files'; your selected family does not support GCF constraints.|
|None|Cannot import the 'Criticality Files'; your selected family does not support CRT constraints.|
|None|Cannot import the 'Timing Constraint Files'; your selected family does not support DCF constraints.|
|None|Cannot import the 'Pin Files'; your selected family does not support PIN constraints.|
|None|Error: Parameter is not defined. Valid command formatting is 'import\_files \[-convert\_EDN\_to\_HDL "TRUE \| FALSE"\] \\ \[-hdl\_source\_folder "Source folder"\]\* \\ \[-library "library"\] \\ \[-cxz "file"\]\* \\ \[-cxf "file"\]\* \\ \[-ccp "file"\]\* \\ \[-crt "file"\]\* \\ \[-hdl\_source "file"\]\* \\ \[-stimulus "file"\]\* \\ \[-templates "file"\]\* \\ \[-modelsim\_ini "file"\]\* \\ \[-fp\_pdc "file"\]\* \\ \[-io\_pdc "file"\]\* \\ \[-sdc "file"\]\* \\ \[-ndc "file"\]\* \\ \[-net\_fdc "file"\]\* \\ \[-icf "file"\]\* \\ \[-ccz "file"\]\* \\ \[-cpz "file"\]\* \\ \[-pin "file"\]\* \\ \[-gcf "file"\]\* \\ \[-saif "file"\]\* \\ \[-schematic "file"\]\* \\ \[-simulation "file"\]\* \\ \[-smartgen\_core "file"\]\* \\ \[-symbol "file"\]\* \\ \[-verilog\_netlist "file"\]\* \\ \[-dcf "file"\]\* \\ \[-profiles "file"\]\* \\ \[-vcd "file"\]\*|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

The command below imports the HDL source files file1.vhd and file2.vhd.

```
import_files -hdl_source file1.vhd –hdl_source file2.vhd
```

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

