# project\_settings

## Description

This Tcl command modifies project flow settings for your Libero SoC project. The **Project Settings** dialog box enables you to modify your Device, HDL, and **Design Flow** settings and your Simulation Options. In Libero SoC, from the **Project** menu, click **Project Settings**.

```
project_settings \
[-hdl "VHDL | VERILOG"] \
[-verilog_mode "SYSTEM_VERILOG | VERILOG_2K"] \
[-vhdl_mode "VHDL_2008 | VHDL_93"] \
[-auto_update_modelsim_ini "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_update_viewdraw_ini "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-standalone_peripheral_initialization "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-ondemand_build_dh "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_generate_synth_hdl "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_run_drc "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_generate_viewdraw_hdl "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_file_detection "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-enable_set_mitigation "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-enable_design_separation "TRUE" | "FALSE"] \
[-display_fanout_limit "display_fanout_limit"] \
[-block_mode "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-abort_flow_on_sdc_errors "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-abort_flow_on_pdc_errors "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-sim_flow_mode "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-auto_generate_physynth_hdl "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-instantiate_in_smartdesign "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-enable_viewdraw "TRUE | FALSE"] \
[-vm_netlist_flow "TRUE | FALSE"]
[-system_verilog_mfcu "TRUE | FALSE"]
[-abort_flow_on_3.3V_IO "1 | 0"] 
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-04DEE101-BD9E-4680-8763-C3CF4362FE2D"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

hdl

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets your project HDL type. Valid values are: VHDL or VERILOG.

</td></tr><tr><td>

verilog\_mode

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets the Verilog standard to Verilog-2001 or System Verilog. Valid values are: VERILOG\_2K or SYSTEM\_VERILOG. The default value is SYSTEM\_VERILOG.

</td></tr><tr><td>

vhdl\_mode

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Sets the VHDL standard. Valid values are: VHDL-2008 or VHDL-1993. The default value is VHDL-2008.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_update\_modelsim\_ini

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Sets the auto-update `modelsim.ini` file option. Valid values are True, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0: -   TRUE, true, 1 - updates the `modelsim.ini` file automatically. The default value is 1.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - modelsim.ini file does not update automatically.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_update\_viewdraw\_ini

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Sets the auto-update `viewdraw.ini` file option. Valid values are True, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0: -   TRUE, true, 1 - updates the `viewdraw.ini` file automatically. The default value is 1.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - `viewdraw.ini` file does not update automatically.

</td></tr><tr><td>

block\_mode

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enables you to create and publish design blocks \(`*.cxz` files\) in Libero® SoC. Puts the Project Manager in Block mode. Design blocks are low-level components that may have completed the place-and-route step and met the timing and power requirements. These low-level design blocks can then be imported into a Libero® SoC project and re-used as components in a higher level design. By default, this box is unchecked. -   TRUE, true, 1 - Enable to create and publish design blocks file.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Disables to create and publish design blocks file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_generate\_synth\_hdl

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Auto-generates your HDL file after synthesis. Valid values are: -   TRUE, true, 1 - Enables auto-generation of your HDL file after synthesis.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Disables auto-generation of your HDL file after synthesis. The default value is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_run\_drc

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Automatically runs the design rule check immediately after synthesis. Valid values are: -   TRUE, true, 1 - Enables and auto-runs the design rule check immediately after synthesis.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Disables and auto-runs the design rule check immediately after synthesis. the default value is 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_generate\_viewdraw\_hdl

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Automatically generates your HDL netlist after Save and Check in ViewDraw. Valid values are: -   TRUE, true, 1 - Enables auto-generation of your HDL netlist. The default value is 1.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Disables auto-generation of your HDL netlist.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_file\_detection

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Automatically detects when new files have been added to the Libero SoC project folder. Valid values are: -   TRUE, true, 1 - Automatically detects new added files in Libero SoC project. The default value is 1.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - Automatically does not detect newly added files in Libero SoC project.

</td></tr><tr><td>

standalone\_peripheral\_initialization

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Use Standalone Initialization for MDDR/FDDR/SERDES Peripherals – Check this box if you want to create your own peripheral initialization logic in SmartDesign, for each of your design peripherals \(MDDR/FDDR/SERDES\). When checked, System Builder does not build the peripherals initialization logic for you. Standalone initialization is useful if you want to make the initialization logic of each peripheral separate from and independent of each other. By default, this box is checked. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1 , FALSE, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

ondemand\_build\_dh

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Enable/disable On Demand Build Design Hierarchy. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0. The default value is 1.

</td></tr><tr><td>

enable\_set\_mitigation

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enable Single Event Transient mitigation - controls the mitigation of Single Event Transient \(SET\) in the FPGA fabric. When this box is checked, SET filters are turned on globally \(including URAM, LSRAM, MACC, I/O FF, Regular FF, DDR\_IN, DDR\_OUT\) to help mitigate radiation-induced transients. By default, this box is unchecked. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

enable\_design\_separation

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Set it to “1” if your design is for security and safety critical applications and you want to make your design’s individual subsystems \(design blocks\) separate and independent \(in terms of physical layout and programming\) to meet your design separation requirements. When set to “1”, Libero generates a parameter file \(`MSVT.param`\) that details the design blocks present in the design and the number of signals entering and leaving a design block. Microchip provides a separate tool, known as Microchip Separation Verification Tool \(MSVT\), which checks the final design place-and-route result against the `MSVT.param` file and determines whether the design separation meets your requirements. The default value is 1. This option available for SmartFusion® 2 and IGLOO® 2.

</td></tr><tr><td>

display\_fanout\_limit

</td><td>

integer

</td><td>

Use this option to set the limit of high fanout nets to be displayed; the default value is 10. This means the top 10 nets with the highest fanout will appear in the `root_compile_netlist.log` file.

</td></tr><tr><td>

abort\_flow\_on\_pdc\_errors

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Abort flow if errors are found in Physical Design Constraints\(PDC\). Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0. By default, this box is checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

abort\_flow\_on\_sdc\_errors

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Abort flow if errors are found in Timing Constraints \(SDC\). Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0. By default, this box is checked.

</td></tr><tr><td>

auto\_generate\_physynth\_hdl

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Auto-generates your HDL file after physical synthesis. Valid values are: TRUE, true, FALSE, false or 0. The default value is 1.

</td></tr><tr><td>

instantiate\_in\_smartdesign

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Instantiate System Builder/MSS component in a SmartDesign on creation. Uncheck this box if you are using this project to create System Builder or MSS components and do not plan on using them in a SmartDesign-based design. This is especially useful for design flows where the System Builder or MSS components are stitched in a design using HDL. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

enable\_viewdraw

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enable/disable to create a schematic source file in Libero SoC. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

vm\_netlist\_flow

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Sets Synthesis gate level netlist format. By default, this box is checked. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0. -   TRUE, true, 1 - sets Verilog netlist format.
-   FALSE, false, 0 - sets EDIF netlist format.

</td></tr><tr><td>

sim\_flow\_mode

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Instantiate simulation cores in your SmartDesign Testbench. Simulation cores are basic cores that are useful for stimulus, such as driving clocks, resets, and pulses. Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0.

</td></tr><tr><td>

system\_verilog\_mfcu

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

Enable/disable the System Verilog Multi-File Compilation Unit \(MFCU\). Valid values are: TRUE, true, 1, FALSE, false or 0. **Note:** This option is only applicable when -verilog\_mode is “SYSTEM\_VERILOG”.

</td></tr><tr><td>

abort\_flow\_on\_3.3V\_IO

</td><td>

boolean

</td><td>

The following options are supported for this parameter.-   1 - The Place-and-Route tool is aborted and an error message is generated in the message log, if 3.3V I/Os are found in the design.
-   0 - The Place-and-Route tool generates the same error message as a warning without interrupting the design flow.

**Note:** This option is only applicable for RT PolarFire® family of devices.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

SmartFusion 2, IGLOO 2:

The following example sets your project to VHDL, disables the auto-update of the ModelSim INI or ViewDraw INI files, enables the automatic generation of HDL after synthesis, enables auto-detection for files, sets the display of high fanout nets to the top 12 high fanout nets, enables SET filters to mitigate radiation-induced transients, and enables design separation methodology for the design.

```
project_settings -hdl "VHDL" \
-auto_update_modelsim_ini "FALSE" \
-auto_update_viewdraw_ini "FALSE"\
-block_mode "FALSE" -auto_generate_synth_hdl "TRUE" \
-auto_file_detection "TRUE" \
-display_fanout_limit {12} \
-enable_set_mitigation {1}
```

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

