# set\_programming\_action

## Description

This is the FlashPro-specific tcl command. Selects the action for a device. The device name parameter must be specified only in chain programming mode. A programming file must be loaded. The device must be a Microchip device.

```
set_programming_action [ -name {name} ] -action { action }
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-14624AD6-240B-41F3-8F83-82A1F54636A8"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the device name. It is optional.

</td></tr><tr><td>

action

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the action. This is mandatory. Valid values are: -   PROGRAM - Programs all selected family features: FPGA Array, targeted eNVM clients and security settings.
-   ENC\_DATA\_AUTHENTICATION - Encrypted bitstream authentication data. This action is only visible if every device in the chain contains encrypted bitstream files. Selecting this action causes each bitstream file to be checked for authentication.
-   ERASE - Erases the selected family features: FPGA Array and security.
-   DEVICE\_INFO - Displays the IDCODE, the design name, the checksum, and device security settings and programming environment information programmed into the device.
-   READ\_IDCODE - Reads the device ID code from the device.
-   VERIFY - Verifies all selected family features: FPGA Array, targeted eNVM clients and security settings.
-   VERIFY\_DIGEST - Calculates the digests for the components included in the bitstream and compares them against the programmed values.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Required parameter 'action' is missing.|
|None|You must specify the device name parameter for the command 'set\_programming\_action' in chain programming mode.|
|None|The device with name does not exist.|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-3CE5C3FE-B60B-4308-AFCF-0BD9CDBD2164"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example sets the programming action in single programming mode::

```
set_programming_action -action {PROGRAM}
```

And in chain programming mode:

```
set_programming_action -name {MyDevice1} -action {ERASE}
```

## See Also

-   set\_programming\_action

**Parent topic:**[FlashPro Express Tcl Commands](GUID-4320979B-E17A-424D-ABEB-FC0D4BBACB08.md)

