# PROGRAMDEVICE

## Description

"PROGRAMDEVICE" is a command tool used in configure\_tool and run\_tool. Configure\_tool allows you to configure the tool’s parameters and values prior to executing the tool. "run\_tool" executes the tool with the configured parameters. To program the design in Libero SoC, you must first configure the "PROGRAMDEVICE" tool with configure\_tool command and then execute the "PROGRAMDEVICE" command with the run\_tool command. Use the commands to configure the programming action and the programming procedures associated with the program action.

```
configure_tool -name {PROGRAMDEVICE} \
               -params {prog_action: params_value}
run_tool -name {PROGRAMDEVICE}
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-1124C231-520B-48F2-9A39-722753F1A0CE"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

prog\_action

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

The acceptable values for this argument are the following: -   PROGRAM - Programs all selected family features: FPGA Array, targeted eNVM clients and security settings. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_PROGRAM\_ACTIONTYPE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, PROC\_ENABLE, DO\_PROGRAM, DO\_VERIFY \(optional\) and DO\_EXIT.
-   VERIFY - Verifies all selected family features: FPGA Array, targeted eNVM clients and security settings. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_VERIFY\_ACTIONTYPE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, PROC\_ENABLE, DO\_VERIFY and DO\_EXIT.
-   ERASE - Erases the selected family features: FPGA Array and security settings. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_ERASE\_ACTIONTYPE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, PROC\_ENABLE, DO ERASE and DO\_EXIT.
-   DEVICE\_INFO - Displays the IDCODE, the design name, the checksum, and device security settings and programming environment information programmed into the device. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_DEVICE\_INFO\_ACTIONTYPE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, DO\_DEVICE\_INFO and DO\_EXIT.
-   READ\_IDCODE - Reads the device ID code from the device. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_READ\_IDCODE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, PRINT\_IDCODE and DO\_EXIT.
-   ENC\_DATA\_AUTHENTICATION - Encrypted bitstream authentication data. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, SET\_AUTHORIZATION\_ACTIONTYPE, VERIFY\_IDCODE, DO\_AUTHENTICATION and DO\_EXIT.
-   VERIFY\_DIGEST - Calculates the digests for the components included in the bitstream and compares them against the programmed values. Mandatory procedures are: INIT\_VARIABLES\_FOR\_ACTION, VERIFY\_IDCODE, PROC\_ENABLE, DO\_ENABLE\_FABRIC \(recommended\), DO\_ENABLE\_SECURITY \(recommended\), DO\_VERIFY\_DIGEST \(recommended\) and DO\_EXIT.
-   READ\_DEVICE\_CERTIFICATE - Reads the device certificate from the device.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|Integer|Returns 0 on success and 1 on failure.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|PolarFire SoC|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

The following example configures "PROGRAMDEVICE" tool to display the IDCODE, design name, device security settings and calculates the digests:

```
configure_tool -name {PROGRAMDEVICE} \
               -params {prog_action:VERIFY_DIGEST} \
               -params {prog_action:DEVICE_INFO}
run_tool -name {PROGRAMDEVICE} #run_tool takes no parameters
```

**Parent topic:**[Command Tools](GUID-57EC11A5-2069-4086-ADFB-D63113B3E275.md)

