# set\_output\_delay

## Description

Defines the output delay of an output relative to a clock in the current scenario.

The `set_output_delay` command sets output path delays on output ports relative to a clock edge. Output ports have no output delay unless you specify it. For in/out \(bidirectional\) ports, you can specify the path delays for both input and output modes. The tool adds output delay to path delay for paths ending at primary outputs.

**Note:**

-   The behavior of the `-add_delay` option is identical to that of PrimeTime\(TM\).
-   If, using the `-add_delay` mechanism, multiple constraints are otherwise identical, except they specify different `-max` or `-min` values.
    -   the surviving `-max` constraint will be the maximum of the `-max` values.
    -   the surviving `-min` constraint will be the minimum of the `-min` values.

```
set_output_delay [-max] [-min] delay_value -clock clock_ref [-clock_fall] [-rise] [-fall] \
[-add_delay] output_list
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-0E0E335E-A2AE-4C67-927C-9EE8208ED5FA"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

delay\_value

</td><td>

float

</td><td>

Specifies the amount of time before a clock edge for which the signal is required. This represents a combinational path delay to a register outside the current design plus the library setup time \(for maximum output delay\) or hold time \(for minimum output delay\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

clock

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the clock reference to which the specified output delay is related. This is a mandatory argument.

</td></tr><tr><td>

max

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that `delay_value` refers to the longest path from the specified output. If you do not specify `-max` or `-min` options, the tool assumes the maximum and minimum output delays to be equal.

</td></tr><tr><td>

min

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that `delay_value` refers to the shortest path from the specified output. If you do not specify `-max` or `-min` options, the tool assumes the maximum and minimum output delays to be equal.

</td></tr><tr><td>

clock\_fall

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that the delay is relative to the falling edge of the clock reference. The default is the rising edge.

</td></tr><tr><td>

rise

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that the delay is relative to a rising transition on the specified port\(s\). If `-rise` or `-fall` is not specified, then rising and falling delays are assumed to be equal.

</td></tr><tr><td>

fall

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that the delay is relative to a falling transition on the specified port\(s\). If `-rise` or `-fall` is not specified, then rising and falling delays are assumed to be equal.

</td></tr><tr><td>

add\_delay

</td><td>

None

</td><td>

Specifies that this output delay constraint should be added to an existing constraint on the<br /> same port\(s\). The `-add_delay` option capture<br /> information on multiple paths with different clocks or clock edges<br /> leading to the same output port\(s\). **Note:**

-   The behavior of the `-add_delay` option is identical to that of PrimeTime\(TM\).
-   If, using the `-add_delay` mechanism, multiple commands are otherwise identical, except they specify different `-max` or `-min` values.
-   the surviving `-max` constraint will be the maximum of the `-max` values.
-   the surviving `-min` constraint will be the minimum of the `-min` values.

</td></tr><tr><td>

output\_list

</td><td>

list of string

</td><td>

Provides a list of output ports in the current design to which `delay_value` is assigned. If you need to specify more than one object, enclose the objects in braces \(\{\}\).

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|integer|Returns the ID of the clock output delay constraint.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|Error: SDC0004|Invalid output delay constraint: clk does not match any clock name or source.|
|Error: SDC0015|Invalid output delay constraint: port list is incorrect.|
|Error: SDC0054|Invalid I/O delay constraint: the min delay is greater than max delay.|
|Error: SDC0061|Invalid output delay constraint: Missing or Illegal parameter/value.|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-56F9E300-6CAB-48D0-9D92-B4EC8F62D904"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

IGLOO® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

RTG4™

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example sets an output delay of 1.2 ns for port OUT1 relative to the rising edge of<br /> CLK1.

```
set_output_delay 1.2 -clock [get_clocks CLK1] [get_ports OUT1]
```

The following example sets a different maximum and minimum output delay for port OUT1 relative to the falling edge of CLK2.

```
set_output_delay -min {OUT1} 1.0 -clock_fall -clock CLK2
set_output_delay -max {OUT1} 1.4 -clock_fall -clock CLK2
```

The following example demonstrates an override condition of two constraints. The first constraint is overridden because the second constraint specifies a different clock for the same output.

```
set_output_delay 1.0 {OUT1} -clock CLK1 -max
set_output_delay 1.4 {OUT1} -clock CLK2 -max
```

The next example is almost the same as the previous one, however, in this case, the user has specified `-add_delay`, so both constraints will be honored.

```
set_output_delay 1.0 {OUT1} -clock CLK1 –max
set_output_delay 1.4 {OUT1} -add_delay -clock CLK2 -max
```

The following example is more complex:

-   All constraints are for an output to port PAD1 relative to a rising edge clock CLK2. Each combination of \{-rise, -fall\} x \{-max, -min\} generates an independent constraint. But the max rise delay of 5 and the max rise delay of 7 interfere with each other.
-   For a `-max` option, the maximum value overrides all lower values. Thus the first constraint will be overridden and the max rise delay of 7 will survive.

```
set_output_delay 5 [get_clocks CLK2] [get_ports PAD1] -max -rise -add_delay # will be overridden
set_output_delay 3 [get_clocks CLK2] [get_ports PAD1] -min -fall -add_delay
set_output_delay 3 [get_clocks CLK2] [get_ports PAD1] -max -fall -add_delay
set_output_delay 7 [get_clocks CLK2] [get_ports PAD1] -max -rise -add_delay
```

## Related Examples on GitHub

-   [set\_output\_delay](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/Libero-SoC-Design-Suite-Tcl-Examples/tree/basic_tcl_examples/SmartTime/set_output_delay)

## See Also

-   [set\_input\_delay](GUID-12FAC9A3-79DE-4CC8-8B3C-132B48D04A77.md)
-   [remove\_input\_delay](GUID-1408ED8A-4B4C-43EC-A130-1E3132FC03A3.md)

**Parent topic:**[SmartTime Tcl Commands](GUID-96623DD0-9D90-4AFA-90C3-B2BAEEE15670.md)

