# Precompiled Software

Learn more about the precompiled software made available for your convenience.

## Introduction

The SmartHLS™ Team has precompiled the following software for your convenience:

-   RISC-V GNU Cross compiler \(GCC 10\)
-   FFmpeg 4.4
-   OpenCV 4.5.4

Please refer to [HLS Makefile](Chunk120481216.md#) for how to specify<br /> additional software libraries.

## RISC-V GNU Cross Compiler

SmartHLS™ uses RISC-V GNU Cross compiler to compile the binary running on the RISC-V Microprocessor Sub-System \(MSS\) processor of PolarFire® 2. You can find the compiler at:

`<SMARTHLS_INSTALLATION_DIR>/SmartHLS/swtools/binutils/riscv-gnu-toolchain/install/bin`

## FFmpeg 4.4 and OpenCV 4.5.4

The SmartHLS™ Team has precompiled FFmpeg 4.4 and OpenCV 4.5.4 targeting the X86 and RISC-V architectures as part of the [SmartHLS Open Source Vision Library](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries/tree/main/vision) . They are used in our tutorials and a copy of the libraries are included during the SmartHLS installation under `<SMARTHLS_INSTALLATION_DIR>/smarthls-library/external/vision/precompiled_sw_libraries`.

However, the RISC-V crossed-compiled libraries are needed to run programs on-board and have to be copied over to the board as described in the next section.

## Copying Compiled Libraries to the PFSoC IcicleKit Board

After setting up by following [Icicle Kit Setup Instructions](Chunk377344541.md#), note the IPv4 network address of the board and confirm that you can ssh into the board.

On a terminal, go to the directory where the precompiled libraries are located and use secure copy \(“scp” command\) to transfer the libraries to the board. By default, a copy of the libraries are included in the SmartHLS installed directory.

```
cd 
<SMARTHLS_DIR>/smarthls-library/external/vision/precompiled_sw_libraries

scp -r ffmpeg4.4-riscv64 opencv4.5.4-riscv64 \
  	root@<BOARD_IP>:/home/root/shls_sw_dependencies
```

Once the the FFmpeg and OpenCV libraries have been copied onto the board make sure to update their references using [Makefile Variables](Chunk120481216.md#) in `Makefile.user` in order for them to run properly on the board.

For Windows, if you do not want to use the terminal, you can use external programs to do copying step above. For example, you can use FileZilla to copy the files over to the board.

