# SmartHLS Migration Guide

Learn how existing Vitis HLS / Vivado HLS designs can be easily migrated to SmartHLS.

## SmartHLS Migration Guide

This section describes how existing Vitis HLS / Vivado HLS designs can be easily migrated to SmartHLS™. When<br /> migrating an existing C++ design from Vitis HLS / Vivado HLS, the pragmas and libraries<br /> used in the source code should be changed to the equivalent ones in SmartHLS. Changes to the C++ source code may also be<br /> necessary.

## General Porting

<table id="GUID-71BDB93E-4EDB-4F5E-A517-9F44EEE55150"><thead><tr><th>

Vitis HLS / Vivado HLS

</th><th>

SmartHLS™

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

`set_top <FUNC>` \(in synthesis Tcl file\)

</td><td>

On the first line of `<FUNC>` , add `#pragma HLS function top`<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

`#include <ap_int.h>`

</td><td>

<br /> \#include &lt;hls/ap\_int.hpp&gt;<br /> using hls::ap\_uint;<br /> using hls::ap\_int;<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

`#include <ap_fixed.h>`

</td><td>

<br /> ``` {#CODEBLOCK_SSX_KQP_FFC .language-cpp}
#include <hls/ap_fixpt.hpp>
using hls::ap_fixpt;
using hls::ap_ufixpt;
#define ap_fixed  ap_fixpt
#define ap_ufixed ap_ufixpt
```

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

`#include <hls_stream.h>`

</td><td>

\#include &lt;hls/streaming.hpp&gt;\#define stream FIFO

</td></tr><tr><td>

`hls::stream` constructor

</td><td>

<br /> Vitis/Vivado HLS’s stream constructor optionally takes a string name<br /> as argument, while SmartHLS’s FIFO<br /> constructor optionally takes depth and type.<br /> -   Remove the FIFO name argument from constructor call if it exists.
-   Vitis/Vivado HLS’s stream has infinite depth in software simulation, that means stream's capacity will grow dynamically at simulation time. In SmartHLS, capacity of a FIFO has to be statically given for both hardware synthesis and simulation. Due to the nature of the simulation engine, capacity of a SmartHLS's FIFO may need to be much bigger in software simulation than what's actually needed in hardware implementation. Users can determine the FIFO's depth for simulation based on the application code and testbench.

<br /> Example of External FIFO Porting
:   Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_E2Z_GRP_FFC .language-cpp}
hls::stream<int> data;
```

SmartHLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_MFP_JRP_FFC .language-cpp}
#define SIM_FIFO_DEPTH 1e4
hls::stream<int> data(SIM_FIFO_DEPTH);
```

Example of Internal FIFO porting
:   Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_NR5_MRP_FFC .language-cpp}
hls::stream<int> data;
#pragma HLS stream variable = data depth = 2
```

SmartHLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_ICH_QRP_FFC .language-cpp}
#define SIM_FIFO_DEPTH 1e4
#ifndef __SYNTHESIS__
hls::stream<int> data(SIM_FIFO_DEPTH);
#else
hls::stream<int> data(2);
#endif
```

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

`<AP_INT_VAR>.to_int()`

</td><td>

`<AP_INT_VAR>.to_uint64()`, or<br /> &lt;AP\_INT\_VAR&gt;.to\_int64\(\)Vitis/Vivado<br /> HLS's ap\_int has a rich list of C-type conversion<br /> functions \(e.g. to\_short\(\), to\_int\(\), to\_long\(\)\).<br /> Since SmartHLS currently only has<br /> to\_uint64\(\) and to\_int64\(\)<br /> available, users may need to add extra explicit casting to fit their<br /> needs.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`<AP_INT_VAR>.range(7,0).to_int()`

</td><td>

\(ap\_uint&lt;...&gt;&lt;AP\_INT\_VAR&gt;.range\(7,0\)\).to\_int64\(\)In SmartHLS, the return value of &lt;AP\_INT\_VAR&gt;.range\(\) cannot be used to directly invoke to\_int64\(\)/to\_uint64\(\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

`stringstream >> ap_fixpt<W, IW, Q_M, O_M>`

</td><td>

```
std::stringstream istr(line)
ap_fixpt<W, IW, Q_M, O_M> = args;
double args_temp;
istr >> args_temp;
args = args_temp;
```

</td></tr><tr><td>

`#include <assert.h>`

</td><td>

```
#ifdef __SYNTHESIS__
#define NDEBUG
#endif
#include <assert.h>
```

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Pragmas

<table id="GUID-D00E5ED6-9E5E-4D1D-9944-90E45B5607EF"><thead><tr><th>

Vitis HLS / Vivado HLS

</th><th>

SmartHLS™

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

aggregate, data\_pack

</td><td>

See the [Struct Variable/Argument Packing](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragmas.

</td></tr><tr><td>

allocation

</td><td>

A global constraint of operation resources can be set via set\_resource\_constraint; constraining the operation resource within a function, a loop or a block of code is not yet available.Functions that are not inlined \(automatically by SmartHLS tool or specified via the Inline Function pragma\) always have a single RTL module instance in hardware, and it is shared by all callers. Replication of a function instance in hardware can be achieved by the Replicate Function and Inline Function pragmas. In the case of multi-threading, each thread of a function creates an instance of the corresponding RTL module.

</td></tr><tr><td>

array\_partition

</td><td>

<br /> Porting for a globally or locally declared variable
:   Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_FXJ_2SP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS array_partition variable=<*VAR&gt;* *&lt;TYPE&gt; *dim=*&lt;DIM&gt;*
```

SmartHLS
:   Move the pragma to right before the *`<VAR>`*variable declaration, and transform it to this form:

:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_GXJ_2SP_FFC}
#pragma HLS memory partition variable(*&lt;VAR&gt;*) type(*&lt;TYPE&gt;*) dim(*&lt;DIM&gt;*)
```

:   For more information, see the [Partition Memory](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.

Porting for a top-level function argument
:   Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_ZHB_FSP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS array_partition variable=<*VAR&gt;* *&lt;TYPE&gt; *dim=*&lt;DIM&gt;*
```

SmartHLS
:   Move the pragma to the beginning of the function body, and transform it to this form:

:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_JXJ_2SP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS memory partition argument(*&lt;VAR&gt;*) type(*&lt;TYPE&gt;*) dim(*&lt;DIM&gt;*)
```

:   For more information, see the [Partition Top-Level Interface](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.

Porting `complete` memory partitioning in multiple but not all dimensions in an array
:   SmartHLS supports `complete`memory partitioning in either 1 or all dimensions, while Vitis/Vivado HLS can apply `complete`memory partitioning in more than 1 discrete dimensions. To port such case, users may need to reshape the array. Below is an example.

:   Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_N1P_KTP_FFC .language-cpp}
ap_uint<12>    buffer[DIM_X][DIM_Y][DIM_Z];
#pragma HLS_ARRAY_PARTITION variable=buffer complete dim=1
#pragma HLS_ARRAY_PARTITION variable=buffer complete dim=2

// Access macro of 'buffer'
#define BUFFER(x,y,z)  (buffer[x][y][z])
```

SmartHLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_UBB_NTP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS memory partition variable(buffer) type(complete) dim(1)
ap_uint<12>    buffer[DIM_X*DIM_Y][DIM_Z];

// Access macro of 'buffer'
#define BUFFER(x,y,z)  (buffer[(x)*DIM_Y+(y)][z])
```

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

dataflow

</td><td>

[Data Flow Parallelism](Chunk120481216.md#) and [Multi-threading](Chunk120481216.md#) can be used to implement a task-level \(dataflow\) pipeline.

</td></tr><tr><td>

dependence

</td><td>

See the [Loop Dependency](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.If inside a loop, the pragma should be moved outside the<br /> loop.

</td></tr><tr><td>

disaggregate

</td><td>

See the `struct_fields` option of the [Partition Top-Level Interface](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.

</td></tr><tr><td>

expression\_balance

</td><td>

See [LATENCY\_REDUCTION](Chunk1590600802.md#) Tcl settings to control the expression balance optimization.

</td></tr><tr><td>

function\_instantiate

</td><td>

The equivalent optimization can be achieved with the [Inline Function](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma or C++ template functions.

</td></tr><tr><td>

inline

</td><td>

See the [Inline Function](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_EQZ_QTP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS inline
```

SmartHLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_CXD_STP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS function inline
```

</td></tr><tr><td>

inline off

</td><td>

See the [Noinline Function](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.Vitis/Vivado HLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_WXH_VTP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS inline off
```

SmartHLS
:   ``` {#CODEBLOCK_L5M_VTP_FFC .language-cpp}
#pragma HLS function noinline
```

</td></tr><tr><td>

interface

</td><td>

See [Top-Level RTL Interface](Chunk120481216.md#) for details about supported interfaces and corresponding pragmas.

</td></tr><tr><td>

loop\_tripcount

</td><td>

See the Bound Loop pragma. Vitis/Vivado HLS<br /> \#pragma HLS loop\_tripcount min=&lt;MIN&gt; max=&lt;MAX&gt; avg=&lt;AVG&gt;<br /> SmartHLSMove the pragma to the outside of the loop and transform it to the following<br /> form. Ignore avg=&lt;AVG&gt;.<br /> \#pragma HLS loop bounds lower\(&lt;MIN&gt;\) upper\(&lt;MAX&gt;\)<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

pipeline, pipeline II=&lt;II&gt;

</td><td>

See Pipeline Function and Pipeline Loop pragmas.If inside a loop, the pragma should be lifted outside the loop.If inside a function, add the pragma to the beginning of the function definition block.Pipeline pragma without II<br /> Vitis/Vivado HLS<br /> \#pragma HLS pipeline<br /> SmartHLS<br /> \#pragma HLS loop pipeline // Inside a loop, lift it outside the loop<br />\#pragma HLS function pipeline // Inside a function<br /> <br /> Pipeline pragma with II<br /> Vitis/Vivado HLS<br /> \#pragma HLS pipeline II=&lt;II&gt;<br /> SmartHLS<br /> \#pragma HLS loop pipeline II\(&lt;II&gt;\) // Inside a loop, lift it outside the loop<br />\#pragma HLS function pipeline II\(&lt;II&gt;\) // Inside a function<br /> <br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

pipeline off

</td><td>

Remove since pipelining is not applied by default.

</td></tr><tr><td>

stable

</td><td>

See the `stable` option of the [Scalar Argument Interface](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.

</td></tr><tr><td>

stream

</td><td>

Streaming interface is implemented via the [hls::FIFO Argument](Chunk120481216.md#).

</td></tr><tr><td>

top

</td><td>

See the [Set Top-Level Function](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma.

</td></tr><tr><td>

unroll

</td><td>

See the [Unroll Loop](Chunk1258399261.md#) pragma, and lift it outside the loop.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>The SmartHLS tool currently does not support the following Vitis/Vivado HLS pragmas:

-   array\_map
-   array\_reshape
-   bind\_op
-   bind\_storage
-   disaggregate
-   latency
-   loop\_flatten
-   loop\_merge
-   occurrence
-   protocol
-   reset
-   shared

## Libraries

**Arbitrary Precision Data Types**
:   Similar to Vitis/Vivado HLS, SmartHLS™ provides [C++ Arbitrary Precision Integer Library](Chunk120481216.md#) and [C++ Arbitrary Precision Fixed Point Library](Chunk120481216.md#). Like Vitis/Vivado HLS, conversion between primitive array data type pointers and the equivalent `ap_int/ap_uint` array pointers through simple pointer casting is supported in SmartHLS.

    For example, the<br /> following SmartHLS code is valid and safe in both<br /> hardware synthesis and software<br /> simulation.

    ``` {#CODEBLOCK_KFZ_YPP_FFC .language-cpp}
    #include <stdint.h>
    #include <hls/ap_int.hpp>
    using hls::ap_uint;
     
    uint8_t d_u8[8];
    ap_uint<8>  *p_u8  = (ap_uint<8> *)d_u8;
     
    uint16_t d_u16[8];
    ap_uint<16> *p_u16 = (ap_uint<16> *)d_u16;
     
    uint32_t d_u32[8];
    ap_uint<32> *p_u32 = (ap_uint<32> *)d_u32;
     
    uint64_t d_u64[8];
    ap_uint<64> *p_u64 = (ap_uint<64> *)d_u64;
    ```

Streaming Library
:   Similar to the `hls::stream` template class in Vitis/Vivado HLS, SmartHLS provides a `hls::FIFO` template class in the [Streaming Library](Chunk120481216.md#).

Math Library
:   While SmartHLS supports a subset of functions in the [Math Library \(math.h\)](Chunk120481216.md#), SmartHLS also has a [Fixed Point Math Library](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries/tree/main/math) that is optimized for hardware implementation with customizable arbitrary precisions. This library is in active development.

Vision Library
:   Like Vitis/Vivado HLS, SmartHLS has a [vision library](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/fpga-hls-libraries/tree/main/vision) designed to simplify the development of video processing solutions on Microchip FPGA devices. The library provides pre-optimized HLS C++ library functions for fast algorithm prototyping of video applications. Using this library, OpenCV-based designs can be ported onto FPGAs with a faster time to market.

Other Libraries
:   Other libraries such as FFT, FIR, DDS, and SRL libraries are not yet supported by SmartHLS. We are actively developing libraries, such as the computer vision IPs. If you are interested in having support of certain IPs, please email us at [SmartHLS@microchip.com](mailto:SmartHLS%40microchip.com). Your feedback is valuable to us and will help to prioritize our production plan.

