# configure\_tool

## Description

This Tcl command is a general purpose command that is used to set the parameters for any tool<br /> called by Libero for the families. The command requires the name of the tool and one<br /> or more parameters in the `tool_parameter:value` format. These<br /> parameters are separated and passed to the tool to setup its run.

**Important:** You can repeat &lt;params&gt; argument for multiple parameters.​​

```
configure_tool -name {tool_name} -params {<parameter>:<value>} 
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-2B1F960D-94AD-4743-A52A-965A6C2060E2"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

tool\_name

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the name of tool for which you wish to configure tool options. It is mandatory. Each tool\_name has its own set of parameters. -   COMPILE
-   CONFIGURE\_ACTION\_PROCEDURES
-   CONFIGURE\_PROG\_OPTIONS
-   CONFIGURE\_PROG\_OPTIONS\_RTG4
-   SYNTHESIZE
-   PLACEROUTE
-   VERIFYTIMING
-   VERIFYPOWER
-   GENERATEPROGRAMMINGDATA
-   GENERATEPROGRAMMINGFILE
-   PROGRAMDEVICE
-   PROGRAM\_OPTIONS
-   PROGRAMMER\_INFO
-   SPM
-   FLASH\_FREEZE
-   PROGRAM\_RECOVERY
-   USER\_PROG\_DATA
-   INIT\_LOCK

</td></tr><tr><td>

params

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the tool options/parameters for the value you want to configure. List of parameters and values. There may be multiple `-params` arguments \(see example below\). This is mandatory.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|None|Required parameter 'name' is missing.|
|None|Required parameter 'params' is missing.|
|None|Parameter 'param\_name' is not defined. Valid command formatting is 'configure\_tool -name "tool name" \[-params "params"\]+ '.|

## Supported Families

|Supported Families|
|------------------|
|PolarFire®|
|RTG4™|
|SmartFusion® 2|
|IGLOO® 2|

## Example

The following example sets the COMPILE command options, `DISPLAY_FANOUT_LIMIT` to<br /> 10 and `MERGE_SDC` to true:

```
configure_tool -name {COMPILE} \
               -params {DISPLAY_FANOUT_LIMIT:10} \
               -params {MERGE_SDC:true}
              
```

## See Also

-   [get\_tool\_options](GUID-B7150D0E-4DDD-423C-945C-17B175566F62.md)

**Parent topic:**[Project Manager Tcl Commands](GUID-CE445F8D-419D-434B-9288-A0005F280E89.md)

