# PDC Naming Conventions

**Note:** The names of ports, instances, and nets in an imported netlist are sometimes referred to as their original names.

## Rules for Displaying Original Names

Port names appear exactly as they are defined in a netlist.

Instances and nets display the original names plus an escape character \(\\\)<br /> before each backslash \(/\), and each forward slash \(\\\) is not a hierarchy separator. For<br /> example, the instance named A/\\B is displayed as A\\/\\\\B.

## Which Name Do I Use in PDC Commands?

When writing PDC commands, follow these rules:

-   Always use the macro name as it appears in the netlist.
-   Names from a netlist:
    -   For port names, use the names exactly as they appear in the netlist.
    -   For instance and net names, add an escape character \(\\\) before each backslash \(\\\) and each forward slash \(/\) that is not a hierarchy separator.
-   For wildcard names, always add an extra backslash \(\\\) before each backslash.
-   Always apply the PDC syntax conventions to any name in a PDC command.

The following table provides examples of names as they appear in an<br /> imported netlist and the names as they should appear in a PDC file.

|Name and Its Location|Name in the Imported<br /> Netlist|Name to Use in PDC<br /> File|
|---------------------|------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
|Port name in a netlist|A/:B1|A/:B1|
|Instance name in a netlist|A/:B1 A$\(1\)|A\\\\/:B1 A$\(1\)|
|Instance name in the netlist<br /> but using a wildcard character in a PDC file|A/:B1|A\\\\\\\\/:B\*|
|Net name in a netlist|Net1/:net1|Net1\\\\/:net1|

When exporting PDC commands, the software always exports names using the<br /> PDC rules described in this section.

## Case Sensitivity When Importing PDC Files

The following table lists the case sensitivity in the PDC file based on<br /> the source netlist.

|File Type|Case Sensitivity|
|---------|----------------|
|Verilog|Names in the netlist are case<br /> sensitive.|
|VHDL|Names in the netlist are not case sensitive<br /> unless those names appear between slashes \(\\\).|

For example, in VHDL, capital<br /> **A**<br /> and lowercase<br /> **a**<br /> are the same name, but<br /> **\\A\\**<br /> and<br /> **\\a\\**<br /> are two different names. However, in a Verilog netlist, an instance named<br /> **A10**<br /> fails, if spelled as<br /> **a10**<br /> in the `set_io` command:

`set_io -port_name A10 -pin_name W5` \(This command<br /> succeeds\).

