# set\_min\_delay

## Description

Specifies the required minimum delay for timing paths in the current design. The path length should be such that the delay along the specified path should be more than the value mentioned for the `delay_value` switch. The timing engine automatically derives the individual minimum delay targets from clock waveforms and port input or output delays. For more information, refer to the `create_clock, set_input_delay`, and `set_output_delay`commands. The minimum delay constraint is a timing exception. This constraint overrides the default single cycle timing relationship for one or more timing paths. This constraint also overrides a multi-cycle path constraint.

You must specify at least one of the `–from`, `-to`, or `–through` arguments for this constraint to be valid.

```
set_min_delay delay_value [-ignore_clock_latency][-from from_list ] [-to to_list ] [-through through_list ]
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-EFEC8786-154C-4E43-94CC-D3F851E71569"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

`delay_value`

</td><td>

floating point

</td><td>

Specifies a floating point number in nanoseconds that represents the required minimum delay value for specified paths. -   If the path starting point is on a sequential device, the tool includes clock skew in the computed delay.
-   If the path starting point has an input delay specified, the tool adds that delay value to the path delay.
-   If the path ending point is on a sequential device, the tool includes clock skew and library setup time in the computed delay.
-   If the ending point has an output delay specified, the tool adds that delay to the path delay.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`from`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of timing path starting points. A valid timing starting point is a clock, a primary input, an inout port, or a clock pin of a sequential cell.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`to`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of timing path ending points. A valid timing ending point is a clock, a primary output, an inout port, or a data pin of a sequential cell.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`through`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of pins, ports, nets, or instances \(cells\) through which the timing paths must pass.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`ignore_clock_latency`

</td><td>

flag

</td><td>

Specifies that the calculation of slack for the specified path excludes clock skew and jitter, and only the data path is considered.**Note:**

-   The flag is useful for analyzing the paths between the sequential elements driven by asynchronous clocks.
-   This option is not supported by the Synplify Pro Synthesis software. In the Libero design flow, this option is skipped for the Synplify Pro Synthesis software.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|`integer`|Returns the ID of the clock minimum delay constraint.|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
|Error: SDC0021|Invalid min delay constraint: the `-from` value is incorrect.|
|Error: SDC0022|Invalid min delay constraint: the `-from` is empty.|
|Error: SDC0023|Invalid min delay constraint: the `-to` value is incorrect.|
|Error: SDC0024|Invalid min delay constraint: the `-to` is empty.|
|Error: SDC0026|Invalid min delay constraint: the `-through` is empty.|
|Error: SDC0061|Invalid min delay constraint: Missing or Illegal parameter/value.|
|Warning|port \(get\_ports\) is incorrect type;"`-through`" objects must be of type net \(`get_nets`\), or pin \(`get_pins`\).|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-56F9E300-6CAB-48D0-9D92-B4EC8F62D904"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

IGLOO® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

RTG4™

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example sets a minimum delay by constraining all paths from `ff1a:CLK or ff1b:CLK to ff2e:D` with a delay more than 5 ns.

```
set_min_delay 5 -from {ff1a:CLK ff1b:CLK} -to {ff2e:D}
```

The following example sets a minimum delay by constraining all paths to output ports whose names start by "out" with a delay more than 3.8 ns.

```
set_min_delay 3.8 -to [get_ports out*]
```

## Related Examples on GitHub

-   [set\_min\_delay](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/Libero-SoC-Design-Suite-Tcl-Examples/tree/basic_tcl_examples/SmartTime/set_min_delay)

## See Also

-   [set\_min\_delay](GUID-244CC545-2A74-4548-8861-D493EAB878BA.md#)
-   [remove\_max\_delay](GUID-62B77CC4-A75C-45D1-A1F2-9F86D4B1A013.md)

**Parent topic:**[SmartTime Tcl Commands](GUID-96623DD0-9D90-4AFA-90C3-B2BAEEE15670.md)

