# Introduction

Chip Planner is a graphical interface tool that provides a Chip View and a<br /> Netlist View of your designs.

The Chip View allows you to create regions, edit regions, and make logic<br /> assignments to regions. It is a floorplanning tool used to improve the timing performance<br /> and routability of your design by providing maximum control over your design object<br /> placement.

The Netlist View provides a schematic view of the design that allows you<br /> to examine the routing of the nets and reveal any routing congestions.

You can also cross-probe from SmartTime into Chip Planner to browse your<br /> design and look into timing problems.

Use Chip Planner to:

-   View macro assignments made during layout.
-   Assign, unassign, or move macros.
-   Lock macro assignments.
-   View net connections.
-   View architectural boundaries.
-   View and edit silicon features, such as I/O banks.
-   Create Regions and assign macros or nets to regions \(floorplanning\).
-   View logic placement and net connections to investigate timing problems together with SmartTime’s Cross-Probing feature.
-   View the hierarchical netlist after Synthesis and the flattened netlist after Compile.
-   Create logical cones for debugging and detailed analysis.

Run Synthesis and Compile Netlist on your design before invoking Chip<br /> Planner. You can invoke Chip Planner for floorplanning after running Place and Route to<br /> improve routability and remove congestion.

When floorplanning, analyze your design to see whether certain logic can<br /> be grouped within regions. Placement of regions are especially useful for hierarchical<br /> designs, with sufficient local connectivity within a block. If your timing analysis<br /> indicates several paths with negative slack, you can group the logic included in these<br /> paths into their own regions. This forces the placement of logic close together within the<br /> path and may improve timing performance of the design.

