# Programming Data

Programming Data entry is created from the design information imported from Libero in a Job Data<br /> Container \(JDC\) file \(see the [Libero SoC Design Flow User Guide](http://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2025_1/Tool/libero_ecf_ug.pdf) for details about JDC Export for a Libero project\).<br /> Programming Data contains all information required for bitstream<br /> generation in the HSM flow and non-HSM flow. A bitstream that is<br /> initialized for non-HSM flow can be exported directly from<br /> Programming Data into a bitstream file in a format selected by<br /> the user.

The following design data modifications can be done by the user within Programming Data:

-   One or more eNVM or sNVM clients can be updated with an image loaded from external data files.
-   Design security can be overwritten from the external Security Policy Manager \(SPM\) file from Libero.
-   In non-HSM flow, plain text values of the encryption and pass keys can be changed. In the HSM flow, all key values are used from the HSM-protected keyset file.

A Job Manager project can have one or many Programming Data entries to support programming of<br /> multiple Microchip devices on the same board.

The following sections provide information about the creation and modification of data in Programming Data entry.

-   **[Create Programming Data from JDC File](GUID-852738E6-4892-4117-AC31-929F16423144.md)**  

-   **[eNVM and sNVM Update](GUID-8FD59B61-D4B8-44D0-B875-C513C3C59040.md)**  

-   **[Key Overwrite \(Non-HSM Flow\)](GUID-B2F59F83-912F-4ABB-8F5F-1A5D51968ADD.md)**  

-   **[Security Overwrite](GUID-2B5A7D4B-567C-41A1-AB23-3D965548F07F.md)**  

-   **[Bitstream Initialization](GUID-AC75F06B-DF1E-4A82-B3BF-C36BE474B68A.md#)**  


