# Properties Window

The Properties window displays the properties of the design elements. What<br /> is displayed in the Properties window is dependent on what is selected in the design view.<br /> Properties displayed may include the following, depending on the type of design<br /> elements:

-   Macro/Component Name—Full Macro or component name based on selection.
-   Cell Type—Resource type based on design element selection.
-   Placed \(Location\)—X-Y coordinates where device element is placed.
-   Resource Usage Table—A table showing resources based on component and macro selection.
-   Region Attached Table—A table showing region to which selected macro/component is assigned.
-   User region \(if any\) to which it is attached.
-   Nets Table—A table showing pins and nets which is associated with the selected macro along with fanout value.
-   Locked/Unlocked \(Placement\)—The selected port is locked or unlocked.
-   Port—Port name to which the I/O macro is assigned \(only shown for I/O port macros\).
-   I/O Technology Standard—I/O Technology which is associated with the selected I/O macro \(only shown for I/O port macros\).
-   I/O Bank—I/O bank to which the selected I/O macro is assigned \(only shown for I/O port macros\).
-   Pin \(Package Pin\)—Pin to which the macro is assigned \(only shown for I/O port macros\).

Not all properties in the list are displayed. The list of displayed properties varies with the type of design element selected.

**Parent topic:**[Other I/O Editor Windows](GUID-A5B625D0-E38D-4817-90D7-344E263F7AA6.md)

