# Types of Tcl Commands

This section describes the following types of Tcl commands:

-   [Built-in Commands](GUID-90149FA0-8ED1-4B8C-83EB-7904C94B2807.md#)
-   [Procedures Created with the proc Command](GUID-90149FA0-8ED1-4B8C-83EB-7904C94B2807.md#)

**Parent topic:**[Tcl Scripting Overview](GUID-57D1B766-9771-410F-B0F1-9199613DB164.md)

## Built-in Commands

Built-in commands are provided by the Tcl interpreter. They are available in all Tcl<br /> applications.

-   Tcl provides several commands for manipulating file names, reading and writing file attributes, copying files, deleting files, creating directories, and so on.
-   You can execute an external program using `exec`. Upon execution, the return value is the output \(on stdout\) from the external program, for example:

    ```tcl
    set tmp [ exec myprog ] puts stdout $tmp
    ```

-   You can easily create collections of values \(lists\) and manipulate them in a variety of ways.
-   You can create arrays - structured values consisting of name-value pairs with arbitrary string values for the names and values.
-   You can manipulate the time and date variables.
-   You can write scripts that can wait for certain events to occur, such as an elapsed time or the availability of input data on a network socket.

## Procedures Created with the proc Command

You use the `proc` command to declare a procedure. You can then use<br /> the name of the procedure as a Tcl command.

The following sample script consists of a single command named `proc`.<br /> The `proc` command takes three arguments:

-   The name of a procedure \(`myproc`\)
-   A list of argument names \(`arg1 arg2`\)
-   The body of the procedure, which is a Tcl script

    ```
    proc myproc { arg1 arg2 } { 
    # procedure body
    }
    myproc a b
    ```


