# Logical Cones

A logical cone is a window that displays only a portion of the netlist. You create this window in<br /> a Netlist Viewer and simply select the objects that you want to appear in the separate<br /> view. You can add individual instances, blocks, nets, and ports to a logical cone. You<br /> can also remove design objects from this cone. Logical cones are useful for debugging<br /> and path analysis, especially for timing-critical nets.

Logical cones help you navigate and analyze a specific part of the design in which you are interested. A logical cone view is very similar to the Netlist Viewer view. The main differences between the Logical cone and Netlist Viewer views are:

-   In a logical cone, you see only the pieces of the design you want to focus on \(for example, analysis of timing-critical paths\) whereas in Netlist Viewer, you see the entire netlist.
-   In a logical cone, a net appears as a dashed line rather than a solid line unless all instances that are connected to that net are also present in the Logical Cone view. These dash-line nets are designated as partially connected, as opposed to fully connected nets \(solid lines\).
-   In a logical cone, all objects of the netlist appear on a single sheet, with hierarchical boundaries still visible. This is a trade-off between the classical hierarchical view, where you must use Push and Pop commands to navigate in the netlist, and the flattened view, where hierarchy is simply ignored.

-   **[Creating a Logical Cone](GUID-B5D82A03-866E-419A-82F6-DE7EAE66CE62.md)**  

-   **[Naming of Logical Cones](GUID-884E64F9-37F2-4A71-8165-43B72844EF98.md)**  

-   **[Renaming a Logical Cone](GUID-3E6573DD-3EDE-4084-90F2-BAA4A11A889B.md)**  

-   **[Setting the Target Cone](GUID-A167236A-9825-4717-BDBC-0AEECF94D132.md)**  

-   **[Adding Selected Objects to a Cone](GUID-C6739B9C-9E8F-439B-A2A1-44B268132770.md)**  

-   **[Deleting a Logical Cone](GUID-994EADC3-338A-4B95-B83B-0443BD5F0224.md)**  

-   **[Removing Objects from a Logical Cone](GUID-6549E0A9-CC32-410A-B564-3B5DF9ABEA48.md)**  

-   **[Logical Cone Persistency](GUID-B199F8B1-6196-4C53-8CB5-1D6FD4281816.md)**  


