# Libero Design Handoff

The design engineer exports design information to the Job Manager using the Export Job Manager Data tool in Libero. This export tool allows the user to select the components to be exported: Security, Fabric, or eNVM. The tool has GUI and TCL interfaces.

For more information, see [Libero SoC Design Flow User Guide](http://coredocs.s3.amazonaws.com/Libero/2025_1/Tool/libero_ecf_ug.pdf).

**Parent topic:**[Main SPPS Flow](GUID-466BE726-BA36-4B47-B413-30BD08FB949B.md)

## Security Export

Security information includes user-defined security keys, locks, and other settings selected by<br /> the user in the Libero SPM. If the user security settings are<br /> not defined, then the JDC file is exported with default device<br /> security settings.

Exported security settings can be changed by the OE in the Job Manager, depending on specific use<br /> cases explained in [Main SPPS Flow](GUID-466BE726-BA36-4B47-B413-30BD08FB949B.md#) and [Non-HSM Flow](GUID-D3F4A27F-9150-44FB-A266-6E0C81044D55.md#).

## Fabric Export

The Fabric component is exported and used in the Job Manager as it is.

## eNVM Export

eNVM data exported through a JDC file includes all eNVM clients available in the Libero project.<br /> The OE can modify eNVM client data within the Job Manager project. This mechanism is<br /> intended to support cases such as firmware development/upgrade flow, which is described<br /> in the following section. The Job Manager can only modify client data; it cannot modify<br /> the eNVM client configuration. eNVM configuration is managed by the design engineer in<br /> the Libero project.

