# Appendix A—Libero-Generated Hardware Configuration Files

This appendix describes the hardware configuration files that Libero generates. These files are<br /> intended to be imported into a firmware project. For more information, see [Building Your Firmware Project](GUID-1F16A799-7019-40DC-8759-0FC231835BC7.md). Depending on the<br /> components present in a design, not all of these files are present.

sys\_config.h
:   This header file contains information about the SmartFusion 2 MSS hardware configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates it. The content of this file is hardware design specific. This file must not be included in the application code.

sys\_config.c
:   This C source file contains information about the SmartFusion 2 MSS hardware configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates it. The content of this file is hardware design specific. This file must be part of your software project if the hardware design uses one of the DDR memory controllers or a SerDes interface.

sys\_config\_mss\_clocks.h
:   This header file contains information about the SmartFusion 2 MSS hardware clock configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates it. The content of this file is hardware design specific. This file must not be included in the application code.

sys\_config\_mddr\_define.h
:   This header file contains information about the SmartFusion 2 MSS DDR hardware configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates them if DDR is included in the Libero design. The content of this file is hardware design specific. This file must not be included in the application code.

sys\_config\_SERDESIF\_&lt;0-3&gt;.c
:   These C source files contain information about the SmartFusion 2 SerDes interface hardware configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates them if SerDes interfaces are included in the Libero design. A separate file is generated for each SerDes interface. The content of these files is hardware design specific. These files must be part of your software project if the hardware design uses one or more SerDes interfaces.

sys\_config\_SERDESIF\_&lt;0-3&gt;.h
:   These header files contain information about the SmartFusion 2 SerDes interface hardware configuration. The Libero hardware design flow generates them if SerDes interfaces are included in the Libero design. A separate file is generated for each SerDes interface. The content of these files is hardware design specific. These files must not be included in the application code.

