# smartpower\_set\_voltage\_opcond

## Description

This Tcl command sets the voltage in the operating conditions.

```
smartpower_set_voltage_opcond -voltage {value} -use {value}
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-1996A571-41D5-417F-8C54-A9F7B0B692C8"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

voltage

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the voltage supply in the operating conditions. The acceptable values for this argument are the following: -   VDD - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDD.
-   VDD18 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDD18.
-   VDDAUX - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDAUX.
-   VDDI 1.1 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDD 1.1.
-   VDDI 1.2 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 1.2.
-   VDDI 1.35 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 1.35.
-   VDDI 1.5 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 1.5.
-   VDDI 1.8 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 1.8.
-   VDDI 2.5 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 2.5.
-   VDDI 3.3 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDI 3.3.
-   VDD25 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDD25.
-   VDDA - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDA.
-   VDDA25 - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VDDA25.
-   VPP - Sets the voltage operating conditions for VPP.

</td></tr><tr><td>

use

</td><td>

string

</td><td>

Specifies the voltage in the operating conditions for each voltage supply. The acceptable values for this argument are the following: -   oprange - Sets the voltage in the operating conditions as specified in your Project Settings.
-   design - Sets the voltage in the operating conditions as specified in the SmartPower design-wideoperating range. Applies to SmartPower only.
-   mode - Sets the voltage in the operating conditions as specified in the SmartPower mode-specificoperating range. Applies to SmartPower only.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|None|None|

## Error Codes

|Error Code|Description|
|----------|-----------|
| |Parameter 'use' has illegal value.|
| |Required parameter 'use' is missing.|
| |Parameter 'voltage' has illegal value.|
| |Required parameter 'voltage' is missing.|
| |Parameter 'param\_name' is not defined. Valid command formatting is 'smartpower\_set\_voltage\_opcond -voltage "VDD \| VDD18 \| VDDI 1.8 \| VDD25" -use "oprange \| design \| mode"'.|

## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-9E6467C3-B2E0-4AA6-9986-FEC82EA085D8"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

RTG4™

</td></tr><tr><td>

IGLOO® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

This example sets the VCCA as specified in the SmartPower mode-specific settings:

```
smartpower_set_voltage_opcond -voltage {VDD} -use {mode}
```

## See Also

-   [smartpower\_voltage\_opcond\_set\_mode\_specific](GUID-F981A051-797D-40A6-B51C-0DBCD0AD6F56.md)
-   [smartpower\_voltage\_opcond\_set\_design\_wide](GUID-68BBB3C5-3DA9-4455-8602-16720D5027E0.md)

**Parent topic:**[SmartPower Tcl Commands](GUID-33C45F08-A467-4461-B5EF-8D86325E235A.md)

