# Publish Block - Configuration Options

To view this dialog box, you must check **Enable block creation** option in the **Project &gt; Project Settings... &gt; Design Flow** dialog box or in the **New Project Creation Wizard**. Once enabled, **Publish Block**option appears in the **Design Flow** window.

To export the block, expand **Publish Design**, right-click **Publish Block**, and select **Export**.

## Publish Block Configuration

-   **Publish Placement**- Select to publish the placement information for the Block. Note that you must assign all macros to regions or lock them to Publish Placement.
    -   If checked, the published Block can only be instantiated and used in a top-level design with the same family and device. If the Block contains I/Os, the published Block can only be instantiated and used in a top-level design with the same family, device, and package.
    -   If unchecked, only a netlist is published for the block. The published block can be instantiated and used in a top-level design for any device and package in the same device family as the block.
-   **Publish Routing**- Select to retain the routing information with the block when published.
-   **Publish Region**- Select to retain the region constraint information with the block when published.

## Language

Select Block HDL \(Verilog or VHDL\) to Preferred HDL type set specified in the **Project Settings** dialog box by default.

**Important:** Blocks must always be published in Verilog, not VHDL.

**Parent topic:**[Publishing Blocks](GUID-0FEEB3DE-88A0-4E90-B91B-E894B0921A02.md)

