# Netlist Attributes NDC Commands

To<br /> set netlist-specific constraints, use Netlist attributes Netlist Design Constraint \(NDC\)<br /> commands.<br /> These commands are placed in a Compile Netlist Constraint \(`*.ndc`\) file and<br /> used by the Libero SoC Compile engine to optimize the post-synthesis netlist.

## set\_ioff

This command specifies whether or not a register is combined with an I/O<br /> during Synthesis. I/Os are combined with a register to achieve better clock-to-out and<br /> input-to-clock timing. This command is placed in a Compile Netlist Constraint<br /> \(`*.ndc`\) file that the Constraint Manager passes to Synthesis as a<br /> constraint in the Libero SoC Constraint Flow.

```
set_ioff -port_name <portname> \ [-IN_REG true/1|false/0] \
[-OUT_REG true/1|false/0] \ [-EN_REG true/1|false/0]
```

**Important:** This command is supported only as an NDC file to be read before Compile/Synthesis. At least one of the preceding options must be specified to use this command. Only one option can be enabled at a time. Microchip supports combining only one Flip-Flop with the I/O, and the fanout must be 1.

### Arguments

-port\_name &lt;portname&gt;
:   Specifies the name of the I/O port to be combined with a register. The port can be an input, output, or inout port. Wildcard characters are supported.

-IN\_REG
:   Specifies whether the input register is combined into the port &lt;portname&gt;. Valid values are true/1 or false/0.

-OUT\_REG
:   Specifies whether the output register is combined into the port &lt;portname&gt;. Valid values are true/1 or false/0.

-EN\_REG
:   Specifies whether the enable register is combined into the port &lt;portname&gt;. Valid values are true/1 or false/0.

### Example

The following example is applicable for the PolarFire, RT PolarFire,<br /> and PolarFire SoC family of devices:

```

set_ioff -port_name {D} -IN_REG <value> -OUT_REG <value> -EN_REG <value>
set_ioff -port_name {Q} -IN_REG <value>-OUT_REG <value>-EN_REG <value>

<value> can be either true/false, or 1/0.
```

The following example is applicable for the SmartFusion® 2, IGLOO® 2, and RTG4™ family<br /> of devices:

``` {#CODEBLOCK_RMV_CSL_4BC}
set_ioff {D} -IN_REG <value> _ -OUT_REG_ <value> _ -EN_REG_ <value>
set_ioff {Q} -IN_REG <value> -OUT_REG <value> -EN_REG <value>

<value> can be yes/no.
```

The `set_ioff` command applies to scalar I/Os<br /> only. For an I/O bus, use the 'for' loop available in Tcl. The following command<br /> combines each scalar member of the 32-bit I/O bus DataA with input<br /> registers:

```
for { set i 0 } { i &lt; 32 } { incr i } { set_ioff -port_name "DataA\[$i\]" -IN_REG 1 }
```

Alternatively, you can use a wildcard to include all scalar signals of<br /> an I/O bus:

```
set_ioff -port_name {DataA[*]} -IN_REG 1
```

### Return Value

The command returns 0 on success and 1 on failure.

### Error Messages

The following error messages are related to this<br /> command:

```
Error: [19138170]: PDCPF-426: IN_REG: Invalid argument value: 'yes' (expecting TRUE, 1, true, FALSE, 0 or false).[set_ioff -port_name PAD -IN_REG yes][[D:/designs/ test_ioff_ioedit/constraint/test.ndc]
Error: [19137989]: PDCPF-01: Port name doesn't exist in the netlist or is not connected to an IoCell macro. [set_ioff -port_name PAD253 -IN_REG 1]
Error: [19138170]: PDCPF-426: Required parameter 'port_name' is missing. [set_ioff][[D:/ designs/test_ioff_ioedit/constraint/test.ndc]
```

## set\_preserve

This command sets a preserve property on instances before compile.<br /> Therefore, compile preserves these instances and does not combine them.

<br />

```
set_preserve -inst_name <hier_inst_name>
```

<br />

### Arguments

-inst\_name
:   Specifies the full hierarchical name of the macro in the netlist to preserve.

### Example

```
set_preserve -inst_name “test1/AND2_0”
```

