# set\_max\_delay

## Description

Specifies the required maximum delay for timing paths in the current design. The path length for any startpoint in `from_list` to any endpoint in `to_list` must be less than the `delay_value`. The timing engine automatically derives the individual maximum delay targets from clock waveforms and port input or output delays. For more information, refer to the `create_clock, set_input_delay`, and `set_output_delay` commands. The maximum delay constraint is a timing exception. This constraint overrides the default single cycle timing relationship for one or more timing paths. This constraint also overrides a multi-cycle path constraint.

You must specify at least one of the `-from` , `-to`, or `-through` arguments for this constraint to be valid.

```
set_max_delay delay_value [-ignore_clock_latency] [-from from_list ] [-to to_list ] [-through through_list ]
```

## Arguments

<table id="GUID-92062BB6-2576-4CE3-8337-71108E750E26"><thead><tr><th>

Parameter

</th><th>

Type

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

`delay_value`

</td><td>

floating point

</td><td>

Specifies a floating point number in nanoseconds that represents the required maximum delay value for specified paths. -   If the path starting point is on a sequential device, the tool includes clock skew in the computed delay.
-   If the path starting point has an input delay specified, the tool adds that delay value to the path delay.
-   If the path ending point is on a sequential device, the tool includes clock skew and library setup time in the computed delay.
-   If the ending point has an output delay specified, the tool adds that delay to the path delay.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`from`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of timing path starting points. A valid timing starting point is a clock, a primary input, an inout port, or a clock pin of a sequential cell.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`to`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of timing path ending points. A valid timing ending point is a clock, a primary output, an inout port, or a data pin of a sequential cell.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`through`

</td><td>

list of strings

</td><td>

Specifies a list of pins, ports, nets, or instances \(cells\) through which the timing paths must pass.

</td></tr><tr><td>

`ignore_clock_latency`

</td><td>

flag

</td><td>

Specifies that the calculation of slack for the specified path excludes clock skew and jitter, and only the data path is considered. **Note:**

-   The flag is useful for analyzing the paths between the sequential elements driven by asynchronous clocks.
-   This argument is not supported by the Synplify Pro Synthesis software. In Libero Design flow, this option is skipped for the Synplify Pro Synthesis software.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>|Return Type|Description|
|-----------|-----------|
|`integer`|Returns the ID of the clock maximum delay constraint.|

## Error Codes

<table id="GUID-F67BBE10-4DAE-4E80-A360-405D69C54169"><thead><tr><th>

Error Code

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

Error: SDC0021

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: the `-from` value is incorrect.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Error: SDC0022

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: the `-from` is empty.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Error: SDC0023

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: the `-to` value is incorrect.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Error: SDC0024

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: the `-to` is empty.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Error: SDC0026

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: the `-through` is empty

</td></tr><tr><td>

Error: SDC0061

</td><td>

Invalid max delay constraint: Missing or Illegal parameter/value.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Warning

</td><td>

cell \(get\_cells\) is incorrect type;"`-through`" objects must be of type net \(`get_nets`\), or pin \(`get_pins`\).**Note:** Constraint will be disabled.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Warning

</td><td>

port \(get\_ports\) is incorrect type;"`-through`" objects must be of type net \(`get_nets`\), or pin \(`get_pins`\). **Note:** Constraint will be disabled.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Supported Families

<table id="GUID-56F9E300-6CAB-48D0-9D92-B4EC8F62D904"><tbody><tr><td>

PolarFire®

</td></tr><tr><td>

PolarFire SoC

</td></tr><tr><td>

SmartFusion® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

IGLOO® 2

</td></tr><tr><td>

RTG4™

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>## Example

The following example sets a maximum delay by constraining all paths from `ff1a:CLK or ff1b:CLK` to `ff2e:D` with a delay less than 5 ns.

```
set_max_delay 5 -from {ff1a:CLK ff1b:CLK} -to {ff2e:D}
```

The following example sets a maximum delay by constraining all paths to output ports whose names start by "out" with a delay less than 3.8 ns.

```
set_max_delay 3.8 -to [get_ports out*]
```

## Related Examples on GitHub

-   [set\_max\_delay](https://github.com/MicrochipTech/Libero-SoC-Design-Suite-Tcl-Examples/tree/basic_tcl_examples/SmartTime/set_max_delay)

## See Also

-   [set\_max\_delay](GUID-CDCFAAE7-BB67-4F0A-9E54-88F759325E05.md#)
-   [remove\_max\_delay](GUID-62B77CC4-A75C-45D1-A1F2-9F86D4B1A013.md)

**Parent topic:**[SmartTime Tcl Commands](GUID-96623DD0-9D90-4AFA-90C3-B2BAEEE15670.md)

