# Lists and Arrays

A list is a way to group data and handle the group as a single entity. To define a<br /> list, use curly braces \{ \} and double quotes “ ”. For example, the following set command<br /> \{1 2 3 \}, when followed by the list command, creates a list stored in the variable "a".<br /> This list will contain the items "1," "2," and "3".

```
set a { 1 2 3 }
```

Here is another example:

```
set e 2
set f 3
set a [ list b c d [ expr $e + $f ] ] puts $a
```

displays \(or outputs\):

```
b c d 5
```

Tcl supports many other list-related commands such as `lindex`,<br /> `linsert`, `llength`, `lrange`, and<br /> `lappend`.

**Parent topic:**[Tcl Scripting Overview](GUID-57D1B766-9771-410F-B0F1-9199613DB164.md)

## Arrays

An array is a method to group data. Arrays are collections of items stored in variables.<br /> Each item has a unique address that you use to access it. You do not need to declare<br /> them or specify their size.

Array elements are managed similarly to other Tcl variables. You create them with the<br /> `set` command, and you can use the dollar sign \($\) to access their<br /> values.

``` {#CODEBLOCK_HVY_SH3_TFC}
set myarray(0) "Zero"
set myarray(1) "One"
set myarray(2) "Two"

for {set i 0} {$i < 3} {incr i 1} {\
    puts stdout $myarray($i)}
```

Output:

``` {#CODEBLOCK_IVY_SH3_TFC}
Zero One Two
```

In the preceding example, an array called `myarray` is created using the<br /> `set` statement, which assigns a value to its first element. The<br /> for-loop statement prints out the value stored in each element of the array.

## Special Arguments \(Command-Line Parameters\)

You can determine the name of the Tcl script file while executing the Tcl script by<br /> referring to the `$argv0` variable.

```
puts “Executing file $argv0”
```

To access other arguments from the command line, you can use the<br /> `lindex` command and the `argv` variable: To read the<br /> Tcl file name:

```
lindex $argv 0
```

To read the first passed argument:

```
lindex $argv 1
```

For example:

```
puts "Script name is $argv0" ; # accessing the scriptname puts "first argument is [lindex $argv 0]"
puts "second argument is [lindex $argv 1]" puts "third argument is [lindex $argv 2]" puts "number of argument is [llength $argv]" set des_name [lindex $argv 0]
puts "Design name is $des_name"
```

