# Resolved Issues

The following table lists the customer-reported defects and enhancement requests resolved in Libero SoC v2025.1 that have case numbers. Resolution of previously reported “Known Issues and Limitations” are also noted in this table.

<table id="GUID-3DBFBB2F-427F-4D2A-A4F2-A009F1EAC514"><thead><tr><th>

Case Number

</th><th>

Summary

</th><th>

Resolution

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

129520

</td><td>

After having constrained the output path with QDR Chip Setup /<br /> Hold and skew requirements, Libero layout could not find valid timing windows.

</td><td>

A calculated tightening of the derating for specific IOPADs<br /> allowed an improvement of QDR slack:-   OCV deratings tightened based on Monte-Carlo Spice simulations.
-   Silicon to software derating tightened to account for IOPAD specificity \(large drivers and wires\).
-   Deratings limited to HSTL12/HSTL15 output pad \(QDR\) and LVDS25 output pad \(SpaceWire\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

140419

</td><td>

There was optimization issue for<br /> `-ignore_clock_latency` timing constraint.

</td><td>

When using **set\_max\_delay -ignore\_clock\_latency**, Place and Route ignores the clock path, and tries<br /> to minimize the placement for the data path.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141172

</td><td>

<br /> -   The report incorrectly referenced timing as relative to the assertion of `FPGA_POR_N` signal, which is an active-low signal.
-   The report provided a single PUFT-related timing value without clarifying whether it represents the minimum, maximum, or typical value

<br />

</td><td>

The PUFT timing numbers in the Libero Reports have been enhanced<br /> and the message related to PUFT timing numbers has been updated.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141478

</td><td>

Different edges were chosen for setup and hold analysis when<br /> recompiling the same design without modifications.

</td><td>

An ambiguity has been removed in multicycle calculation when<br /> **-start** is used with **-setup** and<br /> **-hold** but with a different set of anchors.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141222

</td><td>

Incorrect clock edges were generated for hold analysis with<br /> **-invert** switch.

</td><td>

The **-invert** switch is used to correctly<br /> select the generated clock edges.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141198

</td><td>

Incorrect master clock was observed when clocks were<br /> muxed.

</td><td>

The issue has been fixed during clock propagation where a clock<br /> continues past another clock source.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141197

</td><td>

Incorrect information was observed in the CDC report for muxed<br /> clocks. There was an issue in the search for common ancestors in the CDC report that<br /> reported safe CDC as unsafe.

</td><td>

The issue has been fixed and such scenarios are now properly<br /> reported as safe.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140822

</td><td>

Verify timing crashed when a timing constraints file was<br /> supplied with 'create\_generated\_clock' missing all of the parameters divide\_by /<br /> multiply\_by or edges.

</td><td>

Validation has been added to the timing constraints to ensure<br /> divide\_by / multiply\_by or edges is included as a parameter.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140867

</td><td>

PF\_IO: Libero v2024.2 has unconnected macros in PF\_IO TRIBUFF /<br /> BIBUFF configuration.

</td><td>

The issue has been fixed.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140770

</td><td>

When connected to IOD interfaces, IOPADN:D and IOPADN:E were<br /> floating.

</td><td>

IOPADN:D and IOPADN:E are no longer floating and are now<br /> connected to their respective IOPADP:D and IOPADP:E pins for outbuf, tribuf and bibuf<br /> diff macros, if connected to IOD interfaces.

</td></tr><tr><td>

137818

</td><td>

DDR simulations were failing due to Questasim optimization in Questasim ME Pro 2024.2<br /> version.

</td><td>

This is now fixed in Questasim ME Pro 2024.3 version.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140667

</td><td>

An internal error in c\_ver.exe occurred in SynplifyPro V202309M \(Libero 2024.1\) resulting in<br /> synthesis failure.

</td><td>

This is now fixed in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5 version.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140977

</td><td>

Output generation delay was specifically observed when both<br /> clock and reset signals were toggled at same time.

</td><td>

PF\_CLK\_DIV simulation model has been updated to resolve the<br /> delay in Output clock Generation after reset is asserted back.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140911

</td><td>

3mA out drive as an option for SUBLVDS25 and SUBLVDS33 GPIOs was<br /> missing.

</td><td>

3mA out drive has now been added as an option for SUBLVDS25 and<br /> SUBLVDS33 GPIOs.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140361

</td><td>

Libero was crashing during the **Generate FPGA Array** action.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a<br /> SmartDesign that was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to<br /> instantiate HDL+ cores within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste<br /> functionality of HDL+ cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140306

</td><td>

There was discrepancy between the port name and pin number for<br /> the differential I/O in the Global Net report.

</td><td>

This issue has been resolved by indicating always using the P<br /> side of the differential I/O port in the report.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140882

</td><td>

In the generated vm netlist, INIT string of MACC\_PA\_BC\_ROM was<br /> incorrectly written in binary format, even though it is pre-fixed as 288'h in Synplify<br /> V-2023.09M \(2024.1\) and Synplify V-2023.09M-3\(2024.2\).

</td><td>

This INIT string of MACC\_PA\_BC\_ROM in the generated netlist is<br /> now correctly written in hex format in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140296

</td><td>

The SSN Analyzer was experiencing crashes when used with the<br /> MPF300T-FCG784N device.

</td><td>

This issue has been fixed as the supported SSN Analyzer for FCG784N device used FCG784 SSO<br /> data, as both packages are identical in terms of SSO.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140136

</td><td>

Synthesis failed due to an internal error, @E: BN705, during<br /> optimization stage.

</td><td>

This is now resolved in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140181

</td><td>

Synplify tool incorrectly reported warnings of insufficient<br /> block RAM resources even though the design didn't fully utilize block RAMs of the<br /> specific device.

</td><td>

This incorrect warning is now removed in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140239

</td><td>

There was an issue with reading the DSN value of RTG4 devices at<br /> the end of the programming action.

</td><td>

The programming algorithm has been changed to read the DSN value<br /> before exiting programming mode.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140082

</td><td>

Disabling ODT for Rank0 in the PolarFire DDR3 controller IP had<br /> no effect—the I/O Editor and IBIS model continue to reflect ODT as enabled, resulting<br /> in no distinction in generated files or write behavior.

</td><td>

PF\_ DDR3/DDR4/LPDDR3 core has been updated to remove the "ODT<br /> Activation Settings on Read" option.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140153

</td><td>

There was an issue with DDR3 IBIS Model generated using Libero<br /> SoC V2024.2.

</td><td>

The APIs responsible for dumping the model selector for BIDIR<br /> I/Os have been corrected.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140258

</td><td>

There was BA simulation errors with the 'ODT\_DYNAMIC\_UNIT'<br /> macro.

</td><td>

The 'ODT\_DYNAMIC\_UNIT' simulation model has been updated to<br /> enable BA simulation.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140041

</td><td>

'Generate bitstream' was failing when using an eNVM client memory file filled<br /> with 0s which exceeds 37KB size.

</td><td>

The software has been updated to efficiently check if the first page of eNVM is<br /> filled with zeroes.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139884

</td><td>

'\#N/A' was seen when MPE report was imported in Power Estimator, specifically for<br /> Transceiver related fields.

</td><td>

Fix has been added in Power Estimator to correctly identify XCVR lanes as well as<br /> populate certain fields with default values in places of updating with "--".

</td></tr><tr><td>

139848

</td><td>

In the Aldec simulation flow, the incorrect asim command was getting<br /> generating.

</td><td>

The `run.do` generation has been updated to use `PolarFire asim` command for both PolarFire and PolarFireSoC devices. This resolves the<br /> previous requirement for manual `vmap` adjustment.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140190

</td><td>

The output clock and data of the PF\_IOD\_GENERIC\_TX were not centered in some<br /> cases because of an active DLL.

</td><td>

The issue has been fixed by adding an inactive DLL and connecting to the<br /> interface, if needed.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139519

</td><td>

Compile was not checking if some pins were connected to top ports in the block<br /> mode.

</td><td>

The check has been added to handle such cases correctly.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139301

</td><td>

Synthesis failed due to an internal error, @E: BN707, during the optimization<br /> stage.

</td><td>

This is now resolved in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139341

</td><td>

Libero did not error out for invalid SPI-Flash stage 3 key binding in<br /> combinations with custom security settings.

</td><td>

Libero now errors out for invalid combinations of SPI-Flash stage 3 key binding<br /> with respect to custom security settings.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139180

</td><td>

System Controller Suspend Mode information was missing in the logs.

</td><td>

The System Controller suspend mode information have now been added to the<br /> logs.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139229

</td><td>

SmartTime created 2 clock domains when using differential IO.

</td><td>

This issue has been fixed to create only one clock domain in such<br /> scenario.

</td></tr><tr><td>

139049

</td><td>

Enabling the **Enable RX\_CLK\_ODT\_EN** for LVDS failsafe option<br /> in the RX configurator and selecting "Clock to data relationship" as Dynamic,<br /> Centered, or Aligned \(but not Fractional\), resulted in a non-functional design on<br /> silicon.

</td><td>

The issue has been fixed and users should rerun Place and Route to see the<br /> fix.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138867

</td><td>

Libero was crashing when trying to generate a SmartDesign component in a<br /> design.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a SmartDesign that<br /> was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to instantiate HDL+ cores<br /> within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste functionality of HDL+<br /> cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138956

</td><td>

Complie netlist failed because of an issue with the synthesis-generated<br /> netlist.

</td><td>

This is now resolved in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138852

</td><td>

There were discrepancies in I/O register combining reports between the IOREG,<br /> compile and layout reports.

</td><td>

The compile report and layout log have been enhanced to report more details about<br /> the IOREG combining and data have been made consistent across all reports.

</td></tr><tr><td>

140526

</td><td>

There was issue with PF\_DDRx support for ZQCS commands.

</td><td>

The issues in system generated core have been fixed and validation completed for<br /> all PF\_DDRx cores.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138620

</td><td>

Identify Instrumentor failed with Internal Error in c\_vhdl.exe for certain<br /> designs.

</td><td>

This issue has been resolved In Identify V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138631

</td><td>

There were issues with Globals Assigner Convergence.

</td><td>

Optimization objectives have now been relaxed to avoid long runtimes.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138318

</td><td>

**System Suspend Mode** option was shown in the compile report<br /> in the RTG4 designs; users were allowed to change it later in the flow leading to<br /> confusion.

</td><td>

This option has been removed from the compile report since it can be changed<br /> later in the flow.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138226

</td><td>

An error occurred during BA simulation on an MPF design containing a register<br /> triggered on the negative edge combined with an output.

</td><td>

PF\_IOREG simulation model is now updated with missing timing arcs to cover<br /> different edges of clocks in BA simulation.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138474

</td><td>

**Generate bitstream** was failing when content was filled<br /> with zeros greater than 37 KB present.

</td><td>

The software has been updated to efficiently check if first page of eNVM is<br /> filled with zeroes.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141664

</td><td>

Multiple top-level candidates in the design were encountered which stopped the<br /> compilation.

</td><td>

Top module information now passes all the time in the `synplify prj` file and all conditional dependencies have been removed.

</td></tr><tr><td>

137765

</td><td>

There was issue with cross-probing from SmartTime to Netlist viewer.

</td><td>

<br /> In Libero SoC 11.X releases, the 'Show in Chip Planner' functionality in SmartTime<br /> highlighted the selected object in the Floorplan view and created a Logical Cone in<br /> the Netlist Viewer with that object in the Chip Planner.<br /> In Libero 12.X and 202X.X releases, the cross-probing feature has been retained,<br /> but the logical cone creation part has been removed. This is because the cone<br /> already exists at the bottom of the SmartTime window.<br /> Now, the 'Show in Chip Planner' functionality in SmartTime highlights the selected<br /> item on the NLV canvas within the Chip Planner application. Additionally, it ensures<br /> that the Zoom and Center toggle is switched on for<br /> cross-probing to work as expected.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

138111

</td><td>

The Transceiver Configurator-generated settings for 'Lock To Data with 2x gain'<br /> for 100T were incorrect.

</td><td>

PF\_XCVR: The CDR mode lock to data with 2x gain settings has been updated for<br /> more robust functionality.

</td></tr><tr><td>

137621

</td><td>

SI values entered in configurators resulted in invalid resolutions without<br /> warning users to maintain valid ratio constraints.

</td><td>

The formula to compute values has been enhanced to all the supported Amplitude<br /> values \(100/400/800/1200 mv\).

</td></tr><tr><td>

137099

</td><td>

There was huge difference in resource utilization for two identical set of<br /> HDLs.

</td><td>

The resource utilization of these two identical set of HDLs are now comparable in<br /> SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

136902

</td><td>

The constraints were not being considered in a project after unlinking and<br /> re-importing the constraint files.

</td><td>

Constraint file references remain part of top module even when the file that<br /> caused the issues is deleted. This issue has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

137134

</td><td>

New SPI Flash Device support with FlashPro 6.

</td><td>

Added support for Space Grade QSPI MRAM AS302G208-0108X0MCEY.

</td></tr><tr><td>

137028

</td><td>

SynplifyPro tool reports incorrect warning about<br /> `syn_radhardlevel` directive not being applied inspite of the<br /> attribute being implemented correctly

</td><td>

This incorrect warning is now removed in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

136789

</td><td>

Synthesis fails with internal error in m\_generic.exe.

</td><td>

This crash is now fixed in SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

136573

</td><td>

'PF\_IOD\_TX\_CCC IP' core with 3.5 clock ratio not producing the 'TX\_CLK\_G'<br /> output.

</td><td>

This issue was present for clock ratio 3.5 with data rate less than 400 Mbps as<br /> the connectivity was missing. This has been fixed.

</td></tr><tr><td>

136216

</td><td>

Generated clocks were not analyzed in SmartTime UI.

</td><td>

This issue has been fixed in SmartTime initialization that prevented generated<br /> clock from being calculated.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138338

</td><td>

IO Editor didn't allow different VICM range setting on per IO-pair basis within a<br /> bank.

</td><td>

The constraint on different VICM range has been relaxed in I/O Bank<br /> Assigner.

</td></tr><tr><td>

135489

</td><td>

RTG4CCCECALIB Spacewire application's Clock recovery mode.

</td><td>

Basic tab's Exact Value for Frequency has been disabled and Actual Value has been<br /> removed. The Reference clock frequency is disabled when PLL is in bypass mode.

</td></tr><tr><td>

135423

</td><td>

PF\_IOD: The **L0\_LP\_DATA** and<br /> **L0\_LP\_DATA\_N** of the PF\_IOD\_GENERIC\_RX IP were toggling during<br /> the high-speed data transition.

</td><td>

PF\_IOD\_GENERIC\_RX simulation model is now updated for a user to control on<br /> toggling of **L0\_LP\_DATA** and **L0\_LP\_DATA\_N**<br /> during high-speed data transition through vsim commands.

</td></tr><tr><td>

135492

</td><td>

New STAPL feature support is added to program Micron MT25QL01G SPI-Flash<br /> devices.

</td><td>

A new feature has been added to export STAPL files to program Micron MT25QL01G<br /> and MT25QL02G devices.

</td></tr><tr><td>

134870

</td><td>

User control is enabled over page read and write timings. The vsim commands are<br /> utilized to emulate silicon-like timing accuracy.

</td><td>

The eNVM simulation model has been updated to offer user control on timings of<br /> page read and write operations.

</td></tr><tr><td>

134335

</td><td>

Constraint Manager GUI did not accept negative values for simple clock<br /> uncertainty, resulting in negative edge uncertainty values being excluded from<br /> detailed timing analysis calculations.

</td><td>

Negative clock uncertainty has been added for jitter calculations.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141243

</td><td>

The design contained modules instantiating themselves that resulted in crash and<br /> generated error: 'Unable to find the file '.edf', cannot add it to Libero<br /> project'.

</td><td>

This issue is now handled without a crash.

</td></tr><tr><td>

138709

</td><td>

In the FDDR IP with the DQ 16-bit with SECDED enabled, the single DDR memory<br /> address location couldn't be accessed and ended up with a trap handler issue in the<br /> SoftConsole.

</td><td>

FDDR IP for 16-bit and 8-bit modes with ECC enabled have been updated to map<br /> top-level DQ\_ECC ports correctly to FDDR\_DQ\_ECC\[\#\] package pins for proper ECC<br /> functionality.

</td></tr><tr><td>

141676

</td><td>

RTG4 FDDR Controller in 8-bit or 16-bit width mode with ECC enabled had a<br /> bug.

</td><td>

The bug has been fixed by adding a message in compile for the RTG4 FDDR<br /> Controller in 8-bit or 16-bit width mode with ECC enabled to catch the attention of<br /> users to check the documentation on how to connect the ECC pins.

</td></tr><tr><td>

131218

</td><td>

Libero crashed when trying to open a project.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a SmartDesign that<br /> was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to instantiate HDL+ cores<br /> within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste functionality of HDL+<br /> cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

131579

</td><td>

In PF\_XCVR v3.1.200, enabling the scrambler / descrambler option in 64b / 66b<br /> mode had no effect on the generated simulation model, which led to mismatched<br /> simulation behavior.

</td><td>

A new Gear Box option for 64B66B / 64B67B modes now adds support for expanded<br /> 64b6xb PCS configurations to independently enable scrambler / descrambler, disparity<br /> \(64b/67b only\), BER monitor, and 32-bit data width.

</td></tr><tr><td>

131051

</td><td>

Libero was crashing when opening a project.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a SmartDesign that<br /> was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to instantiate HDL+ cores<br /> within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste functionality of HDL+<br /> cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

131060

</td><td>

In x16 ECC configuration, the MSS configurator incorrectly assigned ECC bits to<br /> DQ\[16–19\] instead of DQ\[32–33\], and misleadingly indicated usage of DQ\[18–19\] for<br /> write calibration, which is handled by the core in both x16 and x32<br /> configurations.

</td><td>

MSS\_DDR 16-bit with ECC enabled update ensures correct ECC byte-lane assignment<br /> in the MSS Configurator component XML and enables proper DDR memory training.

</td></tr><tr><td>

134041

</td><td>

PF\_IOD: There was timing check issue with the Octal PHY.

</td><td>

The check arcs related to pause and reset have been removed from LANECTRL<br /> simulation model to remove the unwanted warnings that appeared during BA<br /> simulation.

</td></tr><tr><td>

130222

</td><td>

There was timing check issue with the Octal PHY.

</td><td>

Timing check related to PAUSE / RESET of LANECTRL is not applied in status timing<br /> analysis. These check arcs have been removed from timing model.

</td></tr><tr><td>

130074

</td><td>

There was issue with Libero Smart Debug Eye Monitor with PolarFire XCVR<br /> design.

</td><td>

Intermittent eye collapse issues have been resolved during lane tests and<br /> traffic. Intermittent 0- Eye opening is now observed if there is signal integrity<br /> setting mismatch between Tx and Rx.

</td></tr><tr><td>

92700

</td><td>

PF\_DDR3/4: Warnings were observed in Fast training mode simulations.

</td><td>

PF\_DDR3 / DDR4 / LPDDR3 cores are now updated to remove simulation warnings<br /> related to Read Gate Training &amp; Fast simulation warnings.

</td></tr><tr><td>

127207

</td><td>

Libero crashed when trying to open a project.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a SmartDesign that<br /> was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to instantiate HDL+ cores<br /> within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste functionality of HDL+<br /> cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

128190

</td><td>

Incorrect error message was printed when 'download\_latest\_core' command was<br /> called with no internet access.

</td><td>

A functionality has been added to check the internet access. If there is no<br /> access, the user is notified.

</td></tr><tr><td>

126645

</td><td>

Libero crashed when trying to open a project.

</td><td>

This issue was occurring because the action was trying to open a SmartDesign that<br /> was corrupted due to the use of copy / paste functionality to instantiate HDL+ cores<br /> within the SmartDesign. This issue related to the copy / paste functionality of HDL+<br /> cores has been resolved.

</td></tr><tr><td>

124376

</td><td>

Libero does not checkout the license from the 2nd floating server specified in<br /> 'LM\_LICENSE\_FILE' when all seats of the first floating server are occupied.

</td><td>

See section [Availability of Multiple Servers in LM\_LICENSE\_FILE Environment Variable](GUID-B029F52B-0D45-441C-BE6A-D25A98F70724.md).

</td></tr><tr><td>

120591

</td><td>

New feature support to show MSS DDR memory training results.

</td><td>

A new feature is introduced to display MSS DDR memory training results.

</td></tr><tr><td>

123950

</td><td>

The `get_clocks` command has been resolved to registers in<br /> exception constraints, resulting in the command ignoring input and output delays.

</td><td>

`get_clocks` command for the **-from** and<br /> **-to** options for all exception constraints<br /> \(`set_false_path`, `set_max_delay`,<br /> `set_min_delay`, `set_multicycle_path`\) have been<br /> resolved on clock objects instead of all clock pins\(or data pins for<br /> **-to** options\) of the registers from that clock domain.<br /> Resolving `get_clocks` on clock objects solves the exceptions matching<br /> on input to register and register to output paths.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>The following table lists the customer-reported defects and enhancement requests resolved in Libero SoC v2025.1 that do not have case numbers. Resolution of previously reported “Known Issues and Limitations” are also noted in this table.

<table id="GUID-ED802583-7749-4EE9-BCC5-09B48E973BFA"><thead><tr><th>

Summary

</th><th>

Resolution

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

CoreAXI4SRAM is an invisible core in the catalog.

</td><td>

CoreAXI4SRAM is now hidden in the catalog.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Libero web links have been updated from 'Microsemi' to 'Microchip'.

</td><td>

The start page has been updated with new links and the connection checking logic<br /> has been changed to support new links.

</td></tr><tr><td>

PF\_LSRAM simulation model is enhanced to support ECC error injection.

</td><td>

<br /> -   Verilog task &amp; Python script-based solution has been introduced to emulate/simulate the ECC flag assertion.
-   Users can now use this solution with any existing Libero project but only with 2025.1 simulation libraries.
-   The changes in user design afre only limited to `run.do`.

<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

Invalid temperature ranges are now accepted using TCL to generate a new<br /> project.

</td><td>

A new check has been added in the TCL command to restrict users from setting a<br /> custom range for the PolarFire and PolarFireSoC families. The same check has already<br /> been added for UI for hiding the custom range in 'Project' settings.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Programmer Detection should be automatic for new projects and TCL script.

</td><td>

<br /> The parameter -programmerfor command<br /> auto\_construct\_job\_project is now optional.<br /> If the parameter is omitted and a single programmer is connected to the host<br /> machine, the command executes successfully.<br />

</td></tr><tr><td>

Libero SmartDebug SI settings persistence shows modified settings in subsequent<br /> SmartDebug launches which may not match actual settings in the device.

</td><td>

The SmartDebug SI settings feature now includes a pop-up message prompting users<br /> to choose between user-configured settings and modified settings when loading<br /> parameters. Additionally, a radio button on the SI settings UI allows users to switch<br /> between these two options.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Projects targeting PolarFire family FPGA and SoC device part numbers offered in<br /> MIL or automotive T2 temperature grade now supports IND range for Analysis Operating<br /> Conditions used by static timing and power analysis.

</td><td>

**Project Settings** option is now used to select the IND<br /> range for Analysis Operating Conditions used by static timing and power analysis. This<br /> enhancement allows designers using MIL or T2 devices in systems that do not operate<br /> beyond the IND range to analyze static timing and power at more applicable<br /> conditions.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Lane controller timing model doesn't match user configuration options.

</td><td>

Lane controller timing model is updated by adding delay step into arc delay<br /> calculation.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Enabled Repair Hold Violations of Source-sync Interface during P&amp;R with<br /> Repair Minimum Delay Violations.

</td><td>

See section [PF\_IOD\_GENERIC\_TX Hold Violations Repair](GUID-E36B05BE-BC0D-4106-ADCB-E14DF527E14C.md).

</td></tr><tr><td>

P&amp;R interpretation of single asynchronous clock group timing<br /> constraint.

</td><td>

Clocks belonging to a single asynchronous clock group timing constraint won't be<br /> asynchnronous to each other.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Timing of some path constraints on output ports were missing in placer.

</td><td>

Timing propagation has been enabled to handle max / min-delay constraints on<br /> output ports. Also, the bus index has been added in importer to locate relevant port<br /> names.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Timing analysis ignored generated clock with register clock pins as<br /> source.

</td><td>

Generated clock now correctly analyzes in this scenario.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Clock generation was 0 when the source is a bidirectional port.

</td><td>

This issue has been fixed when a generated clock is set on a bidirectional I/O<br /> that prevented the clock generation to be calculated correctly in min-delay<br /> analysis.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Identify tool to support pre-armed triggers for RTG4 devices.

</td><td>

Identify V-2023.09M-5 now supports pre-configuring or pre-arming triggers that<br /> allows capturing error events that occur immediately after reset during startup or<br /> initialization before the system is operational.

</td></tr><tr><td>

RAM inference was incorrect and registers were getting inferred in addition to<br /> LSRAMs.

</td><td>

Register packing now happens correctly and only LSRAMs are inferred in<br /> SynplifyPro V-2023.09M-5.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Simulator and port width mismatches simulation warnings.

</td><td>

PF\_DDR3/DDR4/LPDDR3 cores are now updated to remove simulation warnings related<br /> to Read Gate Training &amp; Fast simulation warnings.

</td></tr><tr><td>

New part numbers added.

</td><td>

The new part numbers, MPFS025TS-FCSG325T2, PolarFireSoC, MPFS025TS, FCSG325, STD,<br /> and TGrade2, have been added to the software.

</td></tr><tr><td>

There were issues in meeting min-delay timing without RTL changes.

</td><td>

The search scope has been expanded for inserting delay buffers in min-delay<br /> repair.

</td></tr><tr><td>

In the absence of 'sdf' file, the P &amp; N path tool different delay values<br /> until they were compared at IODPAP\_IN\_VCCI macro &amp; hence, comparison was showing<br /> some unknows.

</td><td>

The IOPADN\_IN\_VCCI simulation model is updated by correcting the default delay of<br /> 10 ps

</td></tr><tr><td>

License checks have been added post creation for partner IPs.

</td><td>

Libero SoC now have licensing checks for partner IPs at the time of creation as<br /> well as after creation.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>