# PLL Calibration Updates for RTG4FCCCECALIB v2.2.100, FDDR v2.0.200, and SerDes v2.0.200 Cores

-   Updated the rules for selecting the high-VCO frequency used to implement the enhanced PLL calibration introduced along with [CN19009](https://www.microchip.com/product-change-notifications/Data/CN19009A/1244685-cn19009a-rtg4-pll-lock-stability-customer-notification-addendum.pdf) and its [addendums](https://www.microchip.com/product-change-notifications/#/15845/CN19009C).
    -   Prior to v2.2.100, the allowed ratio of high-VCO frequency to actual-VCO frequency used during PLL calibration was between 1.5x to 1.9x of the user configured actual-VCO frequency.
    -   Starting with v2.2.100, the allowed High-VCO frequency selected by the RTG4FCCCECALIB core is limited to the reduced range of 1.25x to 1.5x of the actual-VCO frequency. The change was applied to mitigate a rarely encountered loss of lock at cold operating temperatures for specific core configurations using VCO speed-up ratios on the higher side of the previously allowed range.
-   Reduced the enhanced PLL calibration high-VCO dwell time from 150 us to 100 us in the RTG4 SerDes PCIe/XAUI SPLL calibration sequence used with a CoreABC initialization subsystem, to ensure continued successful PCIe endpoint enumeration on newer generation host CPUs. The same update was applied to the RTG4FCCCECLAIB and FDDR cores to ensure consistency for all cores using PLL calibration.
-   Recommended actions related to the PLL Calibration updates:
    -   No action is required for:
        -   Designs that have successfully completed full functional and system testing on each production unit over the full operating conditions.
        -   Designs not using the PLL in RTG4FCCECALIB, the FDDR FPLL, or the SerDes SPLL \(PCIe/XAUI\).
    -   For ongoing designs using fabric PLLs in systems where the operating temperature can fall below 0°C, perform the following steps and re-run the design flow:
        -   Upgrade the design to Libero SoC v2025.1, and observe a warning message in the log window.
        -   Update instances of RTG4FCCCECALIB to v2.2.100 and regenerate the core.
        -   Update instances of RTG4FDDRC or RTG4FDDRC\_INIT to v2.0.200 and regenerate the core.
            -   For RTG4FDDRC, manually copy the updated FDDR\_init.txt initialization program into the user CoreABC initialization subsystem.
        -   Update instances of RTG4 SerDes cores using the SPLL \(for PCIe or XAUI interfaces\) to v2.0.200.

            -   Includes RTG4 cores: PCIE\_SERDES\_IF, PCIE\_SERDES\_IF\_INIT, NPSS\_SERDES\_IF, NPSS\_SERDES\_IF\_INIT
            -   For SERDES cores without auto initialization, including PCIe, copy updated SERDES\_\*\_init\_abc.txt program into CoreABC.
            **Note:** The Libero SoC v2025.1 design flow will error out during netlist Compile if older core versions are detected.

    -   For new designs, use Libero SoC v2025.1 and the latest RTG4FCCCECALIB v2.2.100, FDDR v2.0.200, and SerDes v2.0.200 cores.

**Parent topic:**[RTG4](GUID-631C5460-FE0D-4ABF-98C8-A80D2141964D.md)

